23 Turtles Rescued In Gurugram By Wildlife Department, Released In Sultanpur Sanctuary
A man was arrested by the wildlife department in Gurugram for allegedly smuggling turtles, as per TNN. 23 turtles were rescued. The accused was caught at MG Road after a tip was received. Officials said that the man posed as a delivery executive from Delhi. After his arrest on June 23, the accused was brought in front of an environmental court in Faridabad the next day. The court sent him to 14-day judicial custody, according to HT. A case has been registered as per the relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. "We arrested the suspect from MG Road on Wednesday and seized 23 turtles. Earlier too, the wildlife department was informed about a man who was allegedly supplying turtles in the city. As per our information, the man was suspected to be involved in the illegal trade for the past two years. We are trying to find out from where he procured the turtles,” the report quoted Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram. iStock According to officials, of the total 23 turtles, 13 were spotted black terrapin turtles and the remaining 10 were Indian tent turtles. All 23 of them were released in the Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary. Cases of illegal trade of turtles and tortoises are not common in Gurugram, said an official. Wildlife officials said cases of illegal trade in turtles and tortoises were rarely reported from Gurugram. It may be noted that the last case of illegal smuggling of these reptiles was reported four years ago in January 2017. At that time, three Indian star tortoises were seized from a private resort in Sohna, Gurugram. iStock Tito Joseph, a programme manager with Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), said trafficking of turtles is certainly a big issue. He said such cases were reported from the states in the Gangetic plains. "People usually catch turtles from the freshwater lakes in Delhi-NCR region and sell them in the local markets for consumption purposes,” the report quoted Joseph as saying. Turtles have been protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Notably, species that fall under the aforesaid category are given special protection from poaching, trading and trafficking. If convicted for possession or sale of these reptiles, the accused faces a minimum imprisonment of three years and a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh. 