Chinkara poaching continues unabated, 3 incidents reported
Jaipur: Poaching of the state animal Chinkara (Indian gazelle ) is continuing unabated as incidents of killing the endangered species were reported from three places in the past two days. Two incidents were reported in Nagaur, while one case took place in Sawai Madhopur.In the first incident, poachers killed the animal on the outskirts of village Bhundel panchayat, Khimisar, Nagaur district around 11.30pm on Sunday.After villagers learnt about it, they reached the spot but by that time poachers had fled. The forest and police teams that reached later recovered the carcass. Range officer Hemendra Sirodia said, “The forest department has registered an FIR against unidentified poachers under various sections of Wildlife Protection Act. Also, post-mortem of the animal was conducted.”Earlier, another poaching case was registered around 8.30pm near Gudda Bhagwan village falling under the same forest range. The villagers here managed to nab one poacher, while two fled from the spot. The forest officers have seized a torch, wooden stick, skin, some parts of the Chinkara and a motorcycle which was used in the hunt, from the suspects. Sirodia says, “Chinkara and blackbuck are not hard to hunt. At night, poachers flash torch on the animal. The animal freezes as it is scared. Taking advantage of the situation, the poachers hit hard on the animal’s head to kill it.”The department sources in Nagaur expressed their helplessness in controlling poaching as forest land is scanty and monitoring these animals on revenue land is difficult.With sparse public movement during lockdown , there is a surge in poaching cases. On Saturday, a poaching incident was reported in the village of Olwada panchayat adjoining the Ranthambore National Park (RNP). Here, four poachers on two separate bikes were nabbed by the villagers.However, villagers were not able to catch them as they were armed and fired in air. A forest official said, “As per the reports, the poachers killed the Chinkara with a gun. One of the villagers clicked a picture of the carcass that was tied to the bike. We are investigating the matter.”