Ambergris Bangalore News: Four trying to sell sperm whale’s ambergris worth Rs 8 crore
Ambergris is produced in the gastrointestinal tract of whales BENGALURU: A special team of east division police has seized 6.7kg of sperm whale’s ambergris worth Rs 8 crore and arrested four men from the city. This is probably for the first time in recent times that cops have seized ambergris in Bengaluru. Commanding high value in the international market, ambergris is also known as whale vomit, floating gold and treasure of the sea. Ambergris is produced in the gastrointestinal tract of sperm whales to ease the passage of hard and sharp objects swallowed by them. The sale of ambergris is prohibited in India as the sperm whale was declared an endangered species in 1970 and is protected under the Wildlife Protection Act. The accused are Syed Tajmul Pasha, 54, of Magadi Main Road; Rafi Ulla Sharif, 45, of JP Nagar and Naseer Pasha, 34, and Saleem Pasha, 48, of Palace Guttahalli. The special team, which was tracking drug peddling in the city, learnt through informers that Tajmul, an assistant working with a mosque near his house, had the ambergris and was looking for a potential buyer. Another accused Saleem Pasha, who rents tents and pandals, assigned his assistant Naseer Pasha and Rafi Ulla Sharif, a marketing executive, to look for one. Police commissioner Kamal Pant said the four were caught red-handed near KG Halli on Tuesday. Police sent the item to experts who confirmed that it was a genuine piece, weighing around 6.7kg. “Syed Tajmul Pasha said Salman from Kolar had handed over the ambergris to him two months ago, asking him to dispose of it in Bengaluru for a good price. The special team has left for Kolar, looking for Salman. We’re yet to ascertain from where Salman got it,” Pant said. Deputy commissioner of police (east) SD Sharanappa said Pasha met Salman during their visit to a mosque. “After learning about Pasha's financial problems, Salman offered him the ambergris and asked him to sell it,” he added. 