Uttar Pradesh: Dolphin found dead with harpoon wound in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary
MEERUT: The carcass of an adult freshwater dolphin, bearing deep harpoon wounds, was found on the banks of the Ganga River inside protected Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary near here, reducing the count of the mammal to 35 in the region. The killing of the mammal prompted the Uttar Pradesh’s forest department to register an FIR and launch a crackdown against illegal fishing on the Ganga stretch which has been earmarked as Ramsar site for the conservation of dolphins.The mammal’s carcass was found near Jalalpur Jora village in Hastinapur division. It comes days before state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath is scheduled to visit Hastinapur sanctuary.The authorities claimed the body “seemed a bit old and the mammal could have been attacked somewhere else.” The post-mortem examination report stated that the death was caused due to the harpoon attack, which spoke volumes about the security of the national aquatic animal in the region.Divisional forest officer (DFO) of Meerut division Aditi Sharma said, “Hastinapur sanctuary is divided into five districts and it is not clear where the dolphin was killed. The post-mortem report revealed that the harpoon had hit the spine of the mammal killing it instantly. Since dolphin is not used for human consumption, the hunters/poachers didn’t take it away and the carcass reached Hastinapur river bank. We are in the process of filing an FIR against the unknown poacher.”Meanwhile, neighbouring Bijnor’s DFO M Semmaran has launched a drive against illegal fishing in the region under his jurisdiction. “Apart from this drive, we have also launched awareness campaign among villagers about the dolphins. We have also arrested three persons involved in illegal fishing along with their nets,” he said.UP’s forest department and WWF India are working on a project for conservation of freshwater dolphins, and the stakeholders were upbeat with the recent census held in October last year, which showed three healthy calves adding to the population of 33 this year. In all 36 dolphins were counted in the census.Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary is a 2,073 square-km of stretch along the Ganga and comprises regions of five West UP districts, Bijnor, Meerut, Hapur, Amroha and Muzaffarnagar. Ramsar Site is from Garh Mukteshwar to Narora in Bulandshahr.Meerut’s DFO Sharma said, “The initiative to conserve dolphins at the Ramsar Site had begun in 2015 with 30 dolphins. In the last census, the number had risen to 36 and most of them were spotted in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary. Considering the fact that this mammal gives birth only once in a couple of years, the rise in its population was quite encouraging and three calves also show the favourable habitat for them. But this death is unfortunate and a thorough investigation is underway.”Ramsar sites are considered to be of national importance for conserving biological diversity.