Tarantulas from Poland, Tamarins from Thailand seized in Chennai
"In recent years, the demand for exotic pets has witnessed an upward trend in India. People with disposable incomes are the main buyers; they keep these to flaunt their riches. These are generally kept at homes or as private collections in farm houses" — Saket Badola, India head, TRAFFIC

"During 2020-21, five import violations were detected. The consignments came from China, UAE and Thailand. Recently, a parcel containing 107 spiders in small plastic vials was detected at Chennai airport. It was sent from Poland without legal documents" — Tilotama Varma, Additional Director, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, GoI

The Chennai Air Customs issued a statement last month, detailing one of its weird seizures of recent times. It had detected 107 plastic vials, wrapped in silver foil and cotton, in a courier dispatched from Poland. Each vial contained a live creature that looked like an unusual spider. The strange arachnids, that too, in such large quantities, baffled the customs officers. They invited scientists from the Zoological Survey of India to examine the creatures. These turned out to be tarantulas, hairy spiders that are mostly native to the Americas. A customs officer, requesting anonymity, told ET that an extravagant customer won’t mind paying up to $50 apiece to take it home as an exotic pet.In another major seizure last year, a passenger disembarking from the Thai Airways flight TG337 in Chennai was caught with a number of baby animals — two wide-eyed marmosets, three red-handed tamarins and 12 colourful iguanas, among others, all concealed in his checked-in stroller bag.According to the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau WCCB ), the enforcement arm working under the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the common routes for smuggling live and dead wildlife products include Chennai, New Delhi, Kochi and Mumbai airports as well as the two sea ports of JNPT in Mumbai and Haldia in Kolkata. Some of the live creatures that are in high demand in India include red-eared slider turtles, macaws, African grey parrots, cockatoos, marmosets, chameleons, pythons and loris.India, which accounts for 7-8% of recorded species in the world, has been a source country for illegal wildlife trade bazaars, annually valued at about $20 billion globally. What’s new is how the nation is fast emerging as a key destination, thanks to its opaque laws and a growing fad among Indians to display exotic pets at homes and farmhouses.“In recent years, the demand for exotic pets has witnessed an upward trend in India,” says Saket Badola, India head of TRAFFIC. “People with disposable incomes are the main buyers; they keep these to flaunt their riches. These are generally kept at homes or as private collections in farmhouses,” adds Badola, a senior Indian Forest Service officer presently on a deputation to the global wildlife trade monitoring organisation.Badola recounts a series of extraordinary seizures during the last few years — two baby chimpanzees, en route to India, from Nepal (2017); nine zebras, that were on their way to Indians, from Bangladesh’s Jessore (2018); a leopard cub in Chennai (2019) and a kangaroo in Silchar in Assam (2020). The confiscation in Assam happened in July last year when Covid protocols were well in place and inter-state border movements were highly regulated. Forest officials, on a routine check, intercepted a truck that was carrying six macaw parrots, three Aldabra giant tortoises, two capuchin monkeys and, significantly, the kangaroo — all smuggled through the land route – via Myanmar and Mizoram before entering south Assam.In the infamous chimpanzee smuggling case in Nepal, investigators carried out a sting operation called Wild Eagle to get to its roots and found the involvement of a supplier affiliated with a Nigerian travel agency that often managed the supply of birds and animals to Istanbul and Doha, according to a 2018 New York Times report. The baby chimpanzees, one male and one female, which were to be transported to India through land route, had passed through Istanbul before landing up at the Kathmandu international airport, investigators said.The end price of exotic creatures is very high. But enforcement agencies, in recent years, have stopped assigning any monetary value to wildlife contraband as GoI’s WCCB discourages the practice. “Valuation of seized wildlife articles in the past had led to the proliferation of wildlife crime. So we have discouraged this practice,” says WCCB’s additional director, Tilotama Varma, in a written reply to ET’s queries. “Therefore, the value of illegal wildlife trade in India cannot be quantified exactly. With reference to the international market, the monetary proceeds from illegal wildlife contraband are very high,” she adds.According to a forest officer who understands the complicated black market, there is no upper price cap for an animal that is foreign like a kangaroo or a zebra, but among the most sought-after exotic pets, the hyacinth macaw commands the highest price in India. “A pair could cost up to Rs 15 lakh,” he says.In FY2021, even as scheduled airlines were not flying into India because of Covid, authorities detected at least five import violations in air cargo. The consignments in question were unrelated to each other and arrived on various dates from three nations — China, UAE and Thailand. The seized items included three sets of canine teeth of the panthera species from the Chennai airport and eight photo frames and tissue boxes made of reticulated python skins from the Delhi airport; both violated India’s export-import laws and international rules being framed by CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora).Though there have been quite a few arrests and convictions of those involved in illicit wildlife trade — for example, 304 poachers were arrested in India in FY2021 in connection with 109 incidents — too many laws with several opaque provisions help end customers get away with their expensive buys. For instance, the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, which has a provision of jail term up to seven years, does not cover exotic wildlife. This means, if an enforcement agency catches someone rearing a pair of hyacinth macaws or dozens of Mexican spiders in their Mehrauli farmhouse, not much can be done under India’s existing laws. It is a unique situation where the import of such an exotic item is banned under the Customs A c t 1962, read with the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992, but no illegality can be established if someone is keeping such a bird or an animal at home. This explains why a growing number of people are eager to buy and keep an exotic macaw or marmoset in their garden.“The usual excuse is, ‘we have not imported those; they have been with us for many years; we are breeding those here’,” says TRAFFIC’s Badola. And that normally puts an end to an investigation, if any.After the outbreak of the Covid pandemic in 2019, the aspect of zoonotic diseases has been taken seriously by enforcement agencies handling global wildlife items. When asked what would be the fate of the 107 tarantulas, the then commissioner of customs at Chennai International Airport, Rajan Chaudhary, says: “The parcel was handed over to the postal authority. The spiders will be deported to Poland. The police in Aruppukotai (the town in Tamil Nadu that was given as the address of the intended recipient) are investigating the matter further.”Though there is no data available on the level of corruption in such crimes, traffickers are believed to be greasing the palm of enforcement personnel across the globe. Otherwise, how could a live leopard cub, which was eventually caught at the exit of Chennai airport two years ago, go undetected during the screenings in the state-of-the-art Bangkok airport? And how did the two baby chimpanzees travel unnoticed from Istanbul?The question of their non-detection is relevant because high-value wildlife products, either live or dead, are often carried through air routes. In fact, India is one of the top three countries — the other two being China and Indonesia — involved in illegal wildlife trade via aviation sector, according to a 2020 report “Runway to Extinction”, published by C4ADS, as a part of USAID ROUTES (Reducing Opportunities for UnlawfulEndangered Species) partnership. Surprisingly, 31% of trafficked items in India were in checked luggage, followed by 20% in air cargo, according to the data. The report factored in seizure data in airports between 2009 and 2020 (till April).For enforcement agencies, working mainly in airports, lack of awareness about wildlife crime has been a major impediment. Be it airport security staff or sniffer dogs, they are trained only to catch materials related to terrorism, drugs or gold. The fight against wildlife crime lies in updating the archaic training manuals of India’s airport security and customs personnel, as well as in training the security dogs to sniff out a marmoset or a hyacinth macaw.
