
['Protests After Death Of Child In Elephant Attack\nTHRISSUR: Residents of Kannamkuzhi area near Athirappilly launched a roadblock on Tuesday in the backdrop of the death of five-year-old girl Agnimiya in an elephant attack on Monday.They were demanding that the lone tusker which killed the girl be shot dead, as it had attacked several others and has been wreaking havoc in the area for the last several months. It had killed another person in the area in February last year.According to Chalakudy MLA Saneesh Kumar , seven people had lost their lives in different elephant attacks in areas under the Chalakudy DFO, during the last one year.Efforts by the RDO Harish to calm down the people failed to yield the intended results, as people insisted that the collector Haritha V Kumar should come and accept their demands. The vehicles, including those carrying tourists, were stranded at various points due to the road blockade.They called off the agitation after the collector came to the area and assured of action to contain wild elephant attacks.Later, she convened an all-party meeting at the collectorate in the evening to discuss the issue. K Radhakrishnan , minister for SC/ST welfare, who attended the meeting said that steps would be taken to drive back the wild elephants, which are habitual offenders, to the interior forest areas. Forest officials have been asked to take urgent steps for this, he said.The minister said that ward-level jagrutha samithis will be activated within two days to avert man-animal conflicts in areas close to the forest areas.He said steps would be taken to augment the communication between the people and forest officials so that early warnings can be issued about possible wild animal attacks. The services of the civil defence force will also be made available to mitigate man-animal conflicts. Expert panels will be formed to recommend long- and short-term measures suited to each area.Meanwhile, forest minister AK Saseendran announced that Rs 10 lakh would be given to the family of the girl killed in the attack. The collector said Rs 5 lakh has already been handed over to the family. The remaining amount will be given later, she said.The last rites of Agnimiya, who tested Covid positive, were performed at her home village Mala Puthenchira . Her mother, who also tested Covid positive, was allowed to see the body.']


Kannamkuzhi area near Athirappilly----SUS.LOC

Tuesday----DATE
