
['Woman Charged With Attempted Mother After Dropping Daughter Into Bear\'s Enclosure\nA woman has been charged with attempted murder after dropping her three-year-old into a bear\'s enclosure at a zoo in Uzbekistan. Shocking footage going viral shows a child being dropped into a pit about 16 feet below the barrier as the bear, named Zuzu, walks by and sniffs the child, East2West News reported. East2West Fortunately, zookeepers managed to lure the beast into an indoor part of the cage before rushing to rescue the little girl, who suffered a concussion and cuts from the fall, according to the news outlet.  The mother has been detained and faces a criminal case for attempted murder. If convicted, the woman faces 15 years behind bars.  In the now-viral video, the mother is seen moving to the left after holding her child over the railings at the viewing point, then dropping the helpless girl into the bear\'s enclosure Just moments later, six zoo staff enter the external part of the cage, with one picking up the girl in his arms and carrying her away. "A young woman threw a little girl into a brown bear’s enclosure, in front of all the visitors. It was completely unclear what her motive was,” a zoo spokeswoman said. “Both the visitors and the staff of the zoo were trying to stop her but failed. We are scared to even think how this would end if the bear were to react at the toddler as its prey.” "Zuzu got slowly stood up, slowly got down the trench, walked towards the girl, sniffed her and walked back," the spokeswoman added. Last week, a spine-chilling video went viral showing a man in Florida, U.S., fighting off a wild bear to save his pet dogs.   Dramatic video taken from Walter Hickox’s Ring camera showed the man on the patio with his three dogs when a black bear crawled over a pet gate, coming dangerously close to the dogs, Inside Edition reported.  That’s when Walter showed great courage and lunged toward the bear, shoving it back out of his home as it clawed at him. Walter managed to trap the bear back outside using a fence.  The man later said he plans to install a door on the outside part of the porch and keep some bear spray nearby. For more from trending, click here. ']


Woman----SUS.GENDER

Mother----SUS.GENDER

woman----SUS.GENDER

attempted murder----CRIME.CAT

Uzbekistan----LOC.STATE

bear----SP.COMMON

Zuzu----SUS.NAME

15 years behind bars----OUTCOME
