
['Vultures in Assam under threat for survival\nGUWAHATI: While in states like Karnataka vulture conservation and efforts to revive its dwindling population has been taken up on a mission mode, in Assam the species is facing a crisis for survival.In recent weeks, a large number of vultures died in the state due to the consumption of poisoned carcasses of dead animals, mostly goats and calves.A probe revealed that the dead animals were laced with poison to kill feral dogs, which kill goats and calves. Conservation experts said that in the vicious cycle of killing feral dogs ends up in killing vultures, carbofuran pesticide, extensively used in paddy, has been found to be the killer chemical. Scientists have agreed though that in Assam, feral dogs have become more aggressive in the last 15 years and attacking livestock like never before because of scarcity of food.Sachin Ranade, senior centre manager at the Vulture Conservation & Breeding Centre (VCBC), Rani, said, “Feral dogs kill goats and calves of villagers and so they lay a trap to kill the hunters by scattering carbofuran over the dead animals. While the dogs die, scavenger vultures feed on the carcass and die in large numbers.”Some time back, the VCBC on the outskirts of Guwahati, managed to heal 10 poisoned vultures and one steppe eagle, which survived in the catastrophic poisoning incident in nearby Chaygaon, where about hundred Himalayan Griffons (migratory vultures) died in one day. On Friday, when the agriculturally rich Rani-Borihat area was busy celebrating Rongali Bihu, another incident of 23 Himalayan Griffons dying in Niralpur village came as a shock. Here too, the bodies of a dog and vultures were recovered by the villagers. But like the previous instances, the forest department failed to reveal the name of the culprits behind the poisoning.A local farmer, on condition of anonymity, said carbofuran is most commonly used to kill stray dogs. “Will the villagers lose anything due to the death of vultures? Feral dogs must be killed. Not only calves and goats but they are now attacking broiler chicken in poultry farms,” he said.The use of the chemical has come to light in the poaching of tiger, leopard and jackal in Assam and North Bengal. “It’s a shame on the community if we cannot save local and migratory vultures,” Ranade said.The production and marketing of Carbofuran has been banned all over India, at least in the last one year. However, it is being used for pest management in states like Assam. Sources in the agriculture department said the stocks in circulation were either manufactured earlier or may have been smuggled from neighbouring countries.Divisional forest officer, Kamrup (East), Rohini Ballav Saikia, said a few days ago their team recovered about four carcasses of vultures. This, he said, indicated poisoning is going on secretly in isolated pockets. “We were trying to find out the culprits. The forensic report is being awaited but it looks like the casualties have been due to poisoning only,” said Saikia.In Assam, the local vulture population is estimated to be around 2,000, mainly white-backed and slender-billed vultures. But the killing of the Himalayan Griffons, which come from the Himalayan range, has been the most worrisome incident and bares a gloomy picture of vulture conservation in the state in the light of a population of four crore vultures in India in the 1980s as per the estimation of the Bombay Natural History Society.Over the years, diclofenac drug, used to treat cattle, has already resulted in the death of 99% local gyps vultures, white-backed (boga pithia) and slender-billed (lahithutia) vultures. “Diclofenac is a medicine for mammals but toxic when it goes inside the bodies of vultures after feeding on dead animals. It damages the kidneys permanently,” said Ranade.']


Vultures----SP.COMMON

Assam----LOC.STATE

Niralpur village----LOC.EXACT
