
['Villagers Panic On Seeing Hyena In Raichur Dist, Club It To Death\nBENGALURU: Seen publicly for the first time in Kalyana-Karnataka region, a striped hyena was bludgeoned to death by panic-stricken villagers two days ago in Lingasugur taluk of Raichur district.Believing that the animal is ominous because of its appearance, the villagers assumed it would target children and women and chased and beat it to death.The horrific killing has put the spotlight back on declaring 23,000 hectares of land in the region as a protected area. This land is being eyed by the granite lobby for the popular ‘Mudgal Grey Granite’.Forest officials, who took note of a viral video clip showing villagers attacking the hyena, zeroed in on the location after almost two days of search. “The incident was reported from Venkatarayanapura, near Mudgal in Lingasugur taluk. We have registered a case against one person and are probing the matter further,” Channabasavaraj Kattimani, range forest officer, Lingasugur, told TOI.Strangely, the officials were unable to find the carcass. “We are still trying to locate the dead hyena; nobody knows where it is. We strongly suspect that locals may have disposed it of fearing legal consequences,” a senior official said.A Chandranna, deputy conservator of forests, Raichur, said for the first time a hyena was sighted publicly. “It was indeed a tragedy that rather than rejoicing, people killed it. The habitat around Mudgal bordering Kushtagi is known for its salubrious population of leopards and sloth bears. But more than these animals, it has a thriving population of Indian grey wolves. None of the villagers knew what animal it was,” the officer said. The DCF explained that the authorities have been trying to convert 23,000 hectares of the scrub and dry deciduous forest patch, dotted with rocky hillocks, into a notified area for the conservation of these rare animals.“Not many are aware of the region’s faunal diversity. It is rich with diverse species of mammals, reptiles and amphibians like crocodiles. In fact, I have held a meeting with the Raichur deputy commissioner about the need to declare the region as a protected area. We will soon submit a proposal on this to the government,” Chandranna said.However, according to conservation activists, the granite lobby has been scuttling the efforts of forest officials to get the area a ‘protected’ tag.']


Hyena----SP.SPECIFIC

Raichur Dist----LOC.EXACT

Club It To Death----CRIME.CAT

striped hyena----SP.SPECIFIC

Lingasugur----LOC.DISTRICT

Raichur----LOC.DISTRICT

registered a case----OUTCOME

one----SUS.NUMBER
