
['Five jailed for catching, selling freshwater otter\nA local court in Kaprada of Valsad district sentenced six people to three-year imprisonment in two separate cases of illegal possession of species protected under the Wildlife Protection Act. One of the cases involved a pair of blackbuck kept in captivity in a farm house in Valsad district. In the other case, five persons -- Jyotindra Pandya, Chirayu Patel, Ashok Baria, Bapubhai Ozaria and Indrajit Vaghela were sentenced for illegal possession of a Smooth Coated Otter. The five were caught while looking for a customer to sell the otter for Rs 25 lakh. RFO Abhijitsinh Rathod of Valsad Forest Division said the accused used to tell people that performing a certain ritual in presence of the otter would bring them fortune and wealth. “About a year ago, we got a tip off that Ozaria had caught an otter from Aamdhad of Vadodara and kept it in captivity at Kaprada of Valsad. He connived with other accused and attempted to sell it for Rs 25 lakh. We raided the premises and found the animal kept in captivity. We rescued it and released it in the wild and arrested all five accused,” said Rathod. The Judicial Majistrate First Class sentenced the five to three years of rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10,000 on each. In the second case, accused Arshad Khan was found in possession of a pair of blackbucks, an endangered species, at his farmhouse at Babarkhadak village in Valsad district. The court did not find any evidence of any harm to the blackbucks. He was sentenced to three years imprisonment. Rathod said that Khan had brought the backbucks from UP three years ago and raised them at his farm house. The JMFC D V Savalia said, “It seems that an animal lover is likely to get tempted to raise such a lovely animal and fulfil his hobby. He might not be aware of the law and may be ignorant of the crime he may have committed. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on Khan. RFO Rathod said two blackbucks were rescued and released in Vansda National Park in Navsari.']


Five----SUS.NUMBER

jailed----CRIME.CAT

catching, selling----CRIME.CAT

freshwater otter----SP.COMMON

local court in Kaprada of Valsad district----OUTCOME

six----SUS.NUMBER

three-year imprisonment----OUTCOME

pair----QTY

blackbuck----SP.SPECIFIC

five----SUSPECT.NUMBER

Jyotindra Pandya----SUS.NAME

Chirayu Patel----SUS.NAME

Ashok Baria----SUS.NAME

Bapubhai Ozaria----SUS.NAME

Indrajit Vaghela----SUS.NAME

illegal possession----CRIME.CAT

a----QTY

Smooth Coated Otter----SP.SPECIFIC

Rs 25 lakh----VALUE

tip off----DETECTION_METHOD

Arshad Khan----SUS.NAME

possession----CRIME.CAT

pair----QTY

blackbucks----SP.SPECIFIC

Babarkhadak village in Valsad district----LOC.EXACT

a fine of Rs 10,000----OUTCOME
