
["Mountain lion wanders into California high school, curls up under desk in classroom\nMoutain lion wanders into California high school | Picture courtesy: Twitter/@MagallonNews Photo : Twitter KEY HIGHLIGHTS Staff and deputies were able to isolate the mountain lion inside an English classroom at the California high school. All students and staff remained safe, the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office said in an update. Pictures shared by a Bay Area reporter reveal the mountain lion had curled under a desk, before rescue and release. mountain lion wandered into a California high school classroom Wednesday and was found curled up under a desk. Authorities said that the juvenile cougar was spotted early morning inside the Pescadero High School and contained inside an unoccupied English classroom. All students and staff at the high school were safe as the staff and deputies were able to isolate the puma in the classroom, the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office (SMCSO) confirmed. Officials reportedly tried to let the mountain lion come out on its own but the “lost and scared” panther refused to leave the classroom. However, it didn’t come in the way of learning that day as students just used different classrooms for their English lessons. Here’s a better picture of the #mountainlion inside an English classroom at #Pescadero HS.U.S. Fish and Wildlife… t.co/evch77yWGD — ANI (@ANI) Jun 1, 2022 Officials at the California Department of Fish and Wildlife responded after deputies confirmed the report of a mountain lion situation and worked with them to safely capture and release it into the wild. In another update on Facebook, the SMCSO shared their tongue-in-cheek theory about how the lion ended up in the school. The post read: “Word is that the mountain lion who entered the English classroom at Pescadero High School this meowrning was there to a-paw-logize and paw-sibly ask for a paw-don to turn in its hiss-tory pay-purr a day late. Staff at the school tell us that the entry to the school was a very claw-ver way to ask for an extension on the assignment and the request has been denied”."]


Mountain lion----SP.SPECIFIC

Moutain lion----SP.SPECIFIC

Wednesday----DATE

morning----TIME
