
['Leopard knocked dead on NH6 in Bhandara\nNAGPUR: Three days after a leopard was poached in Wardha range, one more adult male leopard was knocked dead by an unidentified vehicle on NH6 in Bhandara on Sunday. The body of the leopard was found on highway early morning near Dighori.According to veterinarian Dr Gunwant Bhadke, who performed the post-mortem, the animal died due to grievous head injuries.This is the fourth leopard death in last eight days in the region and second in road hit on NH6. On December 6, a leopard was knocked dead near Sendurwafa under Sakoli forest range on NH6.Bhandara deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Vivek Hoshing said, “All the body parts of the animal were intact and there is no foul play. The incident occurred close to the village and the stretch was not proposed for any mitigation measures earlier.”The leopard must be from neighbouring Koka wildlife sanctuary in Bhandara district. As per the latest database of Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), a NGO working to tackle country’s growing wildlife crisis and save endangered species, till date 468 leopards have died since January 1, 2019. This includes poaching and seizure of body parts of 122 animals.Shahid Parvez Khan of Save Ecosystem and Tigers (SEAT), Bhandara, said this is probably the 12th recorded leopard death on NH6 between Bhandara and Deori, on Gondia side.“The figure doesn’t include sloth bears and number of herbivores which have been dying in roads hits regularly. This is happening because no mitigation measures have been taken in forested patches by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI),” he said.Mitigation measures are not being taken despite Nagpur bench of Bombay high court observing on a PIL that there is free flow of wildlife from one side to the other between Bhandara and Deori in the Nagzira-Navegaon Tiger Reserve (NNTR) corridor. “Proper mitigation measures have not been provided between Bhandara and Deori causing a great loss to wildlife,” it observed.Expanding the scope of the PIL from NH-7 to NH-6, Justice Bhushan Gavai had said that when the matter had come up for hearing in the past, suggestions of aforesaid authorities for smaller underpasses were made. “We made certain observations. However, it could be seen that a situation was given to us that due to underpasses on NH-6 there was free flow of wildlife from one side to the other side. However, last week we noticed various newspaper reports on leopards and other species being killed in road accidents on the said patch between Bhandara and Deori,” he said.Justice Gavai observed that prima facie proper mitigation measures have not been provided between Bhandara and Deori causing a great loss to wildlife. “We have reiterated time and again that while permitting development, proper care of wildlife is to be taken. We call upon NHAI to inform this court what mitigation measures are proposed to be undertaken in the Nagzira-Navegaon corridor.”Meanwhile, Nagpur Circle chief conservator of forests (CCF) P Kalyan Kumar informed that 8 accused have been arrested in the poaching of Wardha leopard. The leopard was entangled in wire traps on December 13, in the farm of one Govind Kekapure in Waghdara. The accused removed the body parts of the animal and dumped the body a kilometre away from the spot.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

knocked dead----CRIME.CAT

NH6 in Bhandara----ROUTE.TRANSIT

Bhandara----LOC.DISTRICT

Sunday----DATE

body----ITEM

leopard----SP.COMMON

early morning----TIME

Dighori.According----LOC.EXACT

8----SUS.NUMBER

poaching----CRIME.CAT

Wardha leopard----SP.SPECIFIC

leopard----SP.COMMON

December 13----DATE
