
["Meet Snake Master Vava Suresh, Kerala's Steve Irwin who escaped yet another venomous bite\nWho is Vava Suresh, often likened to 'The Crocodile Hunter' Steve Irwin? What makes him so famous? Here is the story of 'Snake Master' Vava Suresh who rescues, captures, and even pets the deadly reptiles. By Adarsh T R: Vava Suresh, a famous snake catcher and wildlife conservationist from Kerala, was recently bitten by a cobra that he was attempting to rescue from a house in Kottayam district. Suresh tied up his wound, rescued the cobra, and then got admitted to a hospital. The video of the incident went viral and Vava Suresh, who is still recovering from the snake bite, hit headlines once again. advertisement Who is Vava Suresh, often likened to 'The Crocodile Hunter' Steve Irwin? What makes him so famous? Here is the story of 'Snake Master' Vava Suresh who rescues, captures, and even pets the deadly reptiles. VAVA SURESH'S FIRST ENCOUNTER WITH A SNAKE Vava Suresh was born into poverty and lived in a small house in Thiruvananthapuram's Sreekaryam town. Suresh's fascination with snakes began during his childhood. A lean 12-year-old Suresh was on his way to school in mid-1980s when he had his first encounter with a snake. Suresh caught hold of the cobra and brought the snake home. Suresh made the snake crawl inside a bottle and kept it for 15 days. This was the beginning of a long 'friendship' with the deadly reptiles. Suresh quit schooling and has since caught over more than 30,000 snakes and has received 3,000 odd bites. SNAKE MASTER Vava Suresh has been catching snakes as a social service for over 30 years now and assists the Kerala forest department. Whenever a venomous snake is spotted in Kerala, Vava Suresh is called upon to rescue the reptile. Suresh has travelled to almost every remote town in Kerala and is fondly known as the snake master. He's reported to have caught nearly 200 highly venomous king cobras, which are relatively more dangerous as anti-venom antidotes for the poison they secrete are not easily available. (Photo: Getty Images) YouTube videos showing his live encounters with snakes are huge hits in the state. Vava Suresh is known not to use hooks or other sharp tools to catch the reptiles. Vava Suresh is like Kerala's version of Steve Irwin and has his own TV show called 'Snake Master' on a Malayalam channel. Apart from rescuing snakes, Vava Suresh has said he also devotes time to conservation efforts. According to Suresh, loss of habitat and environmental changes are the primary reasons behind snake-human encounters. As part of his conservation efforts, Suresh has hatched over 20,000 snake eggs and later released them into forests. His home is a mini 'snake park'. A NEAR DEADLY SNAKE BITE According to reports, Vava Suresh has been bitten by over 3,000 snakes of which 396 were bites from venomous snakes. One of his most dangerous encounters was in 2020. advertisement On February 13, 2020 Suresh rescued a viper from a well near Kallara town in Thiruvananthapuram and placed the snake in a bottle. When residents requested Suresh to take the snake out of the bottle, he was bitten on a finger on his right hand. Suresh was admitted to a hospital and battled for his life on a ventilator for days. (Photo: Getty Images) When his condition deteriorated, hundreds of devotees flocked to the Mannarasala Nagaraja temple in Haripad to pray for Suresh's speedy recovery. Nestled in a forest, the ancient temple is a pilgrimage spot for serpent worshippers. There were similar prayer meetings organised in churches, mosques, and other places of worship. He spent nine days in hospital recovering before finally being discharged. READ | Kerala Snake handler Vava Suresh on path to recovery, regains consciousness Furthering his fame as 'Snake Master', Vava Suresh rescued a cobra just hours after being discharged from the hospital. The snake was caught from a residential premise in Thiruvananthapuram's Aruvikkara. (Photo: Getty Images) Over his journey as a snake catcher, Suresh has lost his index finger and movement in his right wrist due to snake bites. The finger had to be surgically removed and the right palm had to be skin grafted after a snake bite incident in 2012. advertisement According to Suresh, doctors have told him that antibodies have now started forming in his body after repeated bites. Of the bites he survived, eleven were critical and in two instances he landed up on the ventilator. Suresh has been admitted to ICUs a total of four times. WHY VAVA SURESH IS BACK IN NEWS On January 31, 2022, Vava Suresh was attempting to capture a cobra in Kurichi, Kottayam when the snake bit him on his right leg. Suresh managed to catch the snake, which was handed over to forest department officials. Suresh was taken to a hospital soon after. Suresh had to be briefly placed on ventilator support and is currently under treatment. Kerala Health Minister Veena George has assured free medical care for Vava Suresh. ALSO READ | Kerala snake catcher Vava Suresh bitten by cobra, condition critical The latest snake bite incident has once again raised a debate over the safety of Vava Suresh's methods to catch snakes. According to Kerala forest department, snakes should be caught using the 'bag and pipe' method, where a pipe is fixed to the mouth of a bag that is kept in the corner of a building. Snakes usually move towards corners and this method offers a scientific and safe solution to capture and rescue snakes. advertisement But concerns have previously been raised over methods used by Suresh, who has been catching snakes with his bare hands and without any protective gear. Every time Suresh gets bitten, the debate crops up. But Vava Suresh maintains that snakes are his friends and will not harm any human without any provocation. --- ENDS ---"]


Snake Master----SUS.AFFIL

Vava Suresh----SUS.NAME

Steve Irwin----SUS.NAME

Vava Suresh----SUS.NAME

Snake Master----SUS.AFFIL

Vava Suresh----OFF.NAME

cobra----SP.COMMON

bottle----CONCEALMENT_METHOD

bag and pipe----CONCEALMENT_METHOD

bag----CONCEALMENT_METHOD
