Exotic wildlife species seized from passenger at Chennai airport
CHENNAI: Customs officials at Chennai international airport on Tuesday busted a major exotic species smuggling racket.Marmosets, red handed tamarin, tricolour squirrels and iguanas were seized from a passenger who arrived here from Bangkok. A receiver and another person were also detained.Based on information that wild animals were likely to be smuggled from Bangkok, air intelligence officers maintained a special alert and vigil to catch the smuggler .The AIU officers noticed a man moving in a rather suspicious manner in the arrival area. A close watch was kept on his movement. The man collected his checked in stroller bag and started to walk in a rather hurried manner.The man, identified Suresh, 35, of Chennai, as was intercepted at the exit. He arrived here Bangkok in a Thai Airways flight (TG337) .When his stroller bag was examined, it was found to contain four plastic baskets and one small cardboard box concealed among chocolates and personal effects.The plastic containers and cardboard box had some species of monkeys, rodents and reptiles. When questioned, he informed that the stroller bag had been given to him by someone outside the Bangkok airport with instructions to hand it over to some unknown person outside Chennai airport He was taken outside the airport and one man (receiver) who approached him to collect the bag was detailed. On information given by the receiver , search was conducted at the residence of the organiser in Chennai who has also been detained for further investigation.Wildlife Crime Control Bureau(WCCB) officials identified the species as primates, reptiles and rodents.Seized primates: Two marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), three red handed tamarins (Saguinus midas). Both are natives of South and Central America.Rodents: Two Prevost's squirrels (tricolour squirrel) ( Callssciurus prevostii) One of them was found dead. They are native of Thai Malay peninsula.Two black and red eastern grey squirrels. Both were found dead. They are native of Eastern North Americaeptile species: 12 Iguanas ( Iguana iguana) (blue, yellow and green ones). They are natives of South and Central America.Marmosets, red handed tamarins and iguanas are listed under CITES Appendix II. The squirrels are neither listed under the CITES nor under Wildlife Protection Act.Veterinary doctors were called from Arignar Anna Zoological Park who inspected and found three squirrels dead on arrival and rest of the animals were in healthy condition.Animal quarantine officials recommended deportation of the species back to country of origin as the passenger did not have any NOC/ DGFT licence for import into India.Further investigations were on.