
['Leopard Kills Cow, Climbs Tree With Carcass In Chhatarpur\nBHOPAL: People in a village of Chhatarpur district have been living under the shadow of terror after leopard sighting and killing of a cow on Friday evening.Later the leopard climbed a tree carrying the kill in its jaws. It left the kill on the tree and escaped.A team of the forest department has been searching for the spotted cat for the past 48 hours.It happened in a small village near Bamitha located on the fringes of Panna tiger reserve when a group of villagers spotted the cat while collecting mahua , a flower found in abundance these days. The villagers collect them from under a tree of the same name found in tropical mixed deciduous forests in India. The mohua flowers are fermented to produce alcoholic drink, mahua, a country liquor.Like lakhs of others across the state involved in the exercise of picking the flowers during the summers, villagers in Bamitha also do the same. They were the first who spotted the leopard.After the leopard sighting, they rushed back to the village only to find the fellow villagers in the grip of panic.Dhaniram, a villager, said that he first spotted the “cow hanging from a tree”. The villager said that, “it was killed and carried atop the tree by the leopard,” a phenomenon common with the spotted cat.Forest officials involved in the search operation said, “leopards are known to stash their kill on tree branches to protect from scavenging”.The officials said that the villagers informed them about the leopard sighting. “ We have started search operations but the leopard seems to have gone back to the jungle. We are still camping in Bamitha as a precautionary measure”, they said. But the villagers continue to visit the jungle to collect mahua, said Munia, a middle aged woman. “We are moving around in groups and are vigil while we collect mahua”, she said.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Kills----CRIME.CAT

Cow----SP.COMMON

Chhatarpur----LOC.DISTRICT

Chhatarpur----LOC.DISTRICT

Friday----DATE

evening.Later----TIME

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

searching----DETECTION_METHOD

spotted cat----SP.SPECIFIC

village near Bamitha located on the fringes of Panna tiger reserve----LOC.EXACT

Bamitha----LOC.EXACT
