
['NMC invites operator to run animal incinerator, okays Rs5Cr\nNAGPUR: For the first time, the city will get an animal incinerator to enable owners to perform last rites of their pets, and stray animals as well.The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the project and invited private operators to install as well as operate and maintain it for five years.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that the project has been approved under the central government’s Swachh Bharat Mission . “We intend to commission the incinerator within one year from date of appointment of the operator who will seek all permissions for the project,” he said.Currently, animals were being buried in a 2-acre facility at Bhandewadi dumping yard . The solid waste management department would collect carcasses of stray dogs, cats etc, dig pits and bury them. Pet owners had to go with the body to the spot.Solid waste management department in-charge Dr Gajendra Mahalle said the project will come up in 1,800 sq mt land. “The incinerator will have the capacity to dispose of 500kg carcasses in an hour. It can be operated on diesel or LPG/CNG. A cold storage room will be constructed for storing the carcasses as the incinerator will have only one tray,” he said.Owners will be charged a nominal rate for cremating their pets. “Post-mortem facility will be available for cattle. If the owner gives consent, the skin will be removed before cremation,” said Mahalle.Lauding the initiative, activist Ankita Shah said, “NMC should also provide a vehicle for transporting dead animals from homes.”Very few pet dog owners come to Bhandewadi dumping yard for cremation as the current facilities are very poor. As per NMC data, carcasses of 15-20 dogs and 1-2 cattle are brought for cremation in a day.Mahalle said the forest department will be allowed “to cremate wild animals”. “At present, firewood is used,” he said.In 2016, the NMC had floated a tender for the incinerator. Then, operation and maintenance was not part of the project. The tender was issued without administrative approval from the standing committee and it was cancelled.']


NMC----AUTH.SEIZE

Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)----AUTH.SEIZE

Rs 5 crore----VALUE
