
['Bird flu confirmed in Maharashtra, culling starts in Thane district\nBird flu scare: Hundreds of poultry culled in Maharashtra\'s Thane THANE: The state has recorded its first cases of avian influenza of the year. Several poultry birds, including ducks, owned by a charitable trust in Velholi, Shahpur (Thane district), nearly 100 km from Mumbai, got infected and died in a span of a week, said officials from the state animal husbandry department.The infection was detected after over 300 birds died "mysteriously", prompting local animal husbandry experts to send specimens to a state laboratory in Pune and later to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory in Bhopal. The lab results detected the H5N1 strain of avian flu.Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar said the infection is contained to a small area, which has been declared as infected area, and restrictions have been imposed on the movement of all poultry-related traffic till further notice. "There is no reason for residents to worry," he said.Following reports, a rapid response team was formed in Shahpur that started combing and culling operations in a 1km radius around the spot where the birds were found dead. Apart from culling nearly 23,500 birds, officials said 1,603 eggs and 3,800 kg of poultry feed, along with 100 kg of shells, were destroyed in the infected area.Dhananjay Parkale, additional commissioner at the state animal husbandry department, said a survey has been started in adjoining villages. Pet bird owners and NGOs have been asked to report any sudden deaths to the authorities immediately. "Owners of poultry farms and the public have been informed to report any unusual mortality in crows, parrots, herons, backyard poultry or even in migratory birds to the nearest veterinary dispensary or at the numbers 18002330418 and 1962. Carcasses should not be touched or disposed of without informing local authorities," said an official.Even as the authorities claimed there was little possibility of the flu spreading like the previous year, meat lovers and breeders have expressed concern. "We skipped eating poultry products for nearly three months after cases surfaced in Thane district last year," said a Thane resident. A poultry dealer said they suffered immense losses last year as many switched over from eggs and chicken to other options.']


Bird flu----SUS.AFFIL

Maharashtra----LOC.STATE

Thane----LOC.DISTRICT

Hundreds----QTY

poultry----SP.COMMON

culled----CRIME.CAT

Maharashtra's----LOC.STATE

Thane----LOC.CITY

avian influenza----SP.COMMON

ducks----SP.COMMON

state animal husbandry department.The----AUTH.SEIZE

eggs----ITEM

3,800 kg----QTY

poultry feed----ITEM

100 kg----QTY

shells----ITEM
