
['Langurs for President security? UP administration’s weird hack to deal with monkey menace amid Prez Kovind visit\nRepresentative Image. Photo : iStock Mathura : Local administration in the holy town of Mathura in : Local administration in the holy town of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh found an uncanny hack to deal with the monkey menace during President Ram Nath Kovind ’s visit to Uttar Pradesh, in the form of Langur deployment to scare off the macaques. Dainik Bhaskar . President Kovind was on a trip to Mathura on Monday, during which, the terror of monkeys was running high, so much so that the administration had to resort to langurs for security to ensure that the monkeys do not snatch any items, such as glasses or any food items from His Excellency or guests, reported President Kovind also visited Banke Bihari Temple in addition to Mahila Ashray Sadan in Vrindavan on Monday. There is an immense terror of monkeys around the temples. A large number of monkeys present here snatch glasses, purses, mobile phones, and other items from people. Trained langurs were deployed in the proximity of the temples to ensure that these macaques do not pose any threat or make a mess during the Presidential visit. The responsibility of controlling the langurs on the other hand was given to professional trainers from the local forest department. According to a Dainik Bhaskar report, these langurs were brought with trainer Ram Nivas from a neighbouring village. Langurs are almost twice the size of these rhesus macaque monkeys, they are also more agile and stronger than these monkeys. With the presence of langurs, these monkeys, who snatch people’s stuff from the road, reportedly remained away on roofs or trees. Monkeys are a big menace in Mathura and Vrindavan stretch with people unable to step out of their homes without sticks and batons.']


Langurs for----null

UP administration----AUTH.SEIZE

Ram Nath Kovind----OFF.NAME

Langur----AUTH.SEIZE

Monday----DATE

glasses----ITEM

purses----ITEM

local forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

Ram Nivas----OFF.NAME
