
['World’s Biggest Anaconda in Amazon Killed Humans: Fact Check\nStory: World’s Biggest Snake Anaconda Found in Africa’s Amazon River, It killed 257 humans and 2325 animals. It was 134 feet long and 2067 kgs. It took Africa’s Royal British commandos 37 days to kill it. Other Versions (Hindi) अमेजन में दुनिया के सबसे बड़े एनाकोंडा को मारा गया ! इसकी लंबाई 134 फीट और वजन 2067 किलो था। यह 257 लोगों को मार चुका था… Image of the story in a Facebook post Image of the story in a Twitter post A Pinterest post Fact Check: An eye-grabbing image and story in circulation on social media alleges to show World’s Biggest Anaconda Snake found in Africa’s Amazon River. Accompanying message says the 134 feet long and 2067 kgs massive Anaconda killed 257 humans and 2325 animals and it took Africa’s Royal British commandos 37 days to kill it. Despite the popularity, the claims are not true. Not any Biggest Anaconda that Killed Humans The story in question is doing rounds on Image sharing websites like Pinterest and other social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. It is in fact a popular story in circulation online since at least 2015. A Facebook user Rajesh Das shared the story back on 4th July 2015 and the post garnered more than 1.4 million shares as of this writing. Firstly, the story in question reminds us of an old one viral few years back in similar lines carrying a photograph appearing to show a giant snake on truck. Coming back to the story in question, there are no credible reports about any biggest anaconda of world killing hundreds of humans and thousands of animals. Moreover, there’s no organization or force called Royal British Commandos in Africa. A careful and close look at the photograph reveals the surface area around Anaconda touching the ground is fishy. So is the case with the people close to the body of the large snake. These are actually hints the depiction of the image is not real. Normal, Green Anaconda What you see in the photograph is in fact a Green Anaconda (Eunectes murinus), also known as common Anaconda or common Water Boa. The original photograph – showing much smaller, normal Anaconda – was taken by Lenka Skalosova in the Venezuelan Plains. Clearly, it is manipulated to make it look larger and Photoshopped into another image of the group of men in the forest. Original photograph of normal size Green Anaconda According to National Geographic website nationalgeographic.com, Green Anaconda is the largest snake in the world. It can grow up to 30 feet and weigh up to 550 pounds, i.e. 250 kgs, unlike what is told in the messages. So, the messages claiming to show world’s biggest Anaconda killed humans and animals before getting killed itself is just a hoax. The image shows a normal Green Anaconda Photoshopped into another image of men in forest and the story is fabricated. Hoax or Fact: Hoax.']


Anaconda----SP.COMMON

134 feet long----QTY

2067 kgs----QTY

Royal British commandos----AUTH.SEIZE

Green Anaconda----SP.SPECIFIC

Green Anaconda----SP.SPECIFIC

common Anaconda----SP.SPECIFIC
