
["Parrot steals GoPro, records beautiful video of park in New Zealand. Watch\nThe parrot while flying captured some stunning visuals of the Fiordland National Park in New Zealand. By Shubhi Mishra: There are several instances of animals and birds stealing or snatching stuff from humans. While some experiences are unpleasant, others can have some beautiful results. You must be thinking why we are talking about this, right? So, a video of some magnificent footage from a national park has gone viral online. And well, that footage was caught by a parrot. Yes, you read that right. advertisement The official Instagram handle of The Guardian shared a unique video which was recorded by a “kleptomaniac” parrot. So, what happened was that a woman named Alexandra Verheul from Dunedin was hiking at the Kepler Track with her family. A parrot belonging to the kea species flew away with their GoPro which was perched on a balcony in their hut. The parrot while flying captured some stunning visuals of the Fiordland National Park in New Zealand. In the short footage accidentally recorded by the parrot during its flight, lush green hills can be seen from under its orange-yellow wing. The beautiful landscape is definitely a sight to behold. After a while, the parrot landed on the rocks and even attacked the camera. It flew away after Alexandra’s son found the GoPro and ran to pick it up. “A 'kleptomaniac' parrot swiped a family’s GoPro at Fiordland National Park in New Zealand - capturing some magnificent footage as it took flight with its loot. Alexandra Verheul, from Dunedin, had been hiking the Kepler Track with her family when the bird seized its opportunity. The device had been set down on a balcony at their hut, and was quickly nabbed by the kea. It immediately took flight, all the while filming its glorious getaway. The GoPro captured the airborne escape, as well as the kea’s landing and brief, slightly frenzied attack on the camera,” reads the caption of the post. Watch the viral video here: After being shared online, the video garnered over 1 million views. Netizens were delighted after watching the glorious landscape and took to the comments to share their thoughts. “Beautiful shot,” a user said. Another user commented, “What a splendid video they've got.” See the comments here: “We just followed the sound down there, they’d obviously heard us coming and abandoned the GoPro. My son decided to go check the rocks where it looked like a good place for a bird to land, and there it was still sitting there, still filming,” Alexandra told local television programme Seven Sharp. advertisement ABOUT KEA PARROTS The kea is Aotearoa’s native alpine parrot species and is known for its curious and mischievous nature and for swiping wallets, jewellery, packed lunches, windscreen wipers and other valuables from unsuspecting tourists and visitors. National Geographic terms it as a “very curious parrot” according to the caption of the post. Did you like the video? ALSO READ: Bihar beggar uses QR code for digital alms. Internet is divided ALSO WATCH: Trekker rescued after being trapped in hill cleft in Kerala for two days | VIDEO --- ENDS ---"]


Parrot----SP.COMMON

GoPro----ITEM

parrot----SP.COMMON

kleptomaniac” parrot----SP.SPECIFIC

woman----SUS.GENDER

Alexandra Verheul----SUS.NAME

Dunedin----SUS.LOC

Kepler Track----LOC.EXACT

Alexandra Verheul----SUS.NAME

Dunedin----SUS.LOC
