
["White lion attacks zookeeper in front of audience during feeding time at Karachi zoo\nThe white lion shares the enclosure with a lioness (Representative Image) | Photo Credit: Getty Images Key Highlights The zookeeper Kannu Piraditta is now stable, said officials Zoo director blamed the victim by claiming that he had violated rules A video of the chilling attack is going viral on social media New Delhi: A man in Pakistan managed to evade the lion's jaw quite literally after he was attacked by the majestic cat in a zoo in Sindh province on Monday. A video of the bone-chilling incident, shot by an eyewitness, has since gone viral on social media platforms. According to inputs, Kannu Piraditta was feeding a white lion raw meat when the predator attacked him. The zookeeper at Karachi Zoological Gardens, Piradatta can be seen screaming in pain and trying to break free from the clutches of one of the world's most lethal predators. Shockingly, the entire incident played out in front of an audience who had gathered to witness how a white lion is fed. (Photo Courtesy: LiveLeak) In the video, Piradatta struggles and manages to break free. However, his left arm can be seen covered in blood. Following the horrific incident, the zookeeper was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Karachi and his health is now improving. A senior official with the zoo told media outlets that it was an unfortunate incident. The zookeeper violated rules by feeding the animal from the wrong side of the enclosure, said Zoo director Qamar Ayub. This is not the first time such an incident has been reported from Pakistan. In September of this year, the caretaker of a religious establishment in Lahore's Shahdara district set his pet lion loose on an electrician who was demanding payment for his services. The caretaker, Ali Raza, witnessed patiently as the big cat mauled one Mohammed Rafique's face and arm. Raza was charged with attempted murder. The ownership of lions, tigers and even leopards as pet animals is not uncommon in various countries such as Pakistan, Afghanistan and even some parts of the United Arab Emirates. However, instances of caretakers and owners of these majestic cats falling prey to their pet animals continue to be reported."]


White lion----SP.SPECIFIC

attacks----CRIME.CAT

Karachi zoo----LOC.EXACT

zookeeper----SUS.AFFIL

Kannu Piraditta----SUS.NAME

man----SUS.GENDER

Pakistan----LOC.STATE

Sindh province----LOC.DISTRICT

Monday----DATE

Kannu Piraditta----SUS.NAME

white lion----SP.SPECIFIC

raw meat----ITEM
