
['In Junnar, man-animal conflict takes a bite out of election spirit\nJUNNAR: Sarubai Baban Mandlik’s three-year-old grandson Sai Santosh Mandlik was killed in a leopard attack on May 4, 2015. Since then, this resident of Dingore village in Junnar tehsil has not stepped out of the house after 7pm. “We are living in constant fear,” she said.The “constant fear” has also robbed young Nirmala of her academic ambitions. Her mother Ranibai Shivaji Pardhi reveals how Nirmala, a brilliant student, quit her studies after Class IX following a leopard attack. “She had sustained serious head injuries and was hospitalized for a month. After her discharge, she gave up her studies fearing another attack. A month ago, Nirmala got married without completing her Class X,” Ranibai said while pointing to the spot where her daughter was attacked.“Sightings of big cats are frequent here. A week ago, a leopard was spotted near our house,” Sarubai told TOI on Saturday. Sitting on a verandah that now has a protective iron grille, she recalled how one commuter had fallen into a ditch after suddenly spotting a big cat. “He was scared and could not even raise an alarm,” she said.Junnar, a part of the Shirur parliamentary constituency, is clearly struggling with man-animal conflict. Every month, there are about 20 cases of leopards attacking domestic animals. In some cases, humans too have been attacked and there have been deaths as well. Forest officials said the animals have expanded their footprint in Ambegaon, Shirur and Khed tehsils also in the past five years.Like many local residents, Sarubai is angry with the politicians for not doing enough. Ranibai agrees that there is political apathy. “No political party worker has so far come to our hamlet to seek votes. The main reason is the remoteness of our location. If they cannot even come to us before the elections, how can we expect them to address our issues in the future. It is better to abstain from the voting,” Ranibai said.“Politicians have been deliberating on issues such as bullock cart races, widening of the highways, railway line project etc. Why did they not promise to look into this issue? Leopard tourism can be a viable solution, but no party or politician talks on this subject,” said Bapu Rasale, a resident of Otur village.Several farmers in these assembly constituencies, under the Shirur LS constituency, are not able to work in their farms at nights. “Our motor pumps do not get adequate electricity during the day. As a result, we are forced to work at night. But we cannot do that anymore,” said a farmer from Ambegaon.“The existence of leopards is not limited to Junnar now. In the past few years, the big cats were caught in Wagholi, Sinhagad Road and Loni Kalbhor areas as well. To change this scenario, political leaders must address the issue,” said Dada Rokade, a resident of Junnar town.During campaigns, no party had paid attention to this subject, said the residents. The forest department catches at least 10 to 12 leopards every year from different areas of the constituency, sources at the Manikdoh leopard rescue centre told TOI. “Given the limited space available at the centre, we release the captured animals after a certain number of weeks in a new area. If the government develops leopard tourism spots, it will give impetus not only to tourism here but also to the local economy. This project needs to be completed at the earliest,” said a senior forest official, requesting anonymity.']


Junnar----LOC.EXACT

Sai Santosh Mandlik----SUS.NAME

May 4, 2015----DATE

Dingore village in Junnar tehsil----SUS.LOC

Otur village.Several----SUS.LOC
