
['Maharashtra: 4 men booked for ‘raping’ Bengal monitor lizard in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve\nAdvertisement New Delhi: In an outlandish case ever before, four persons were arrested for allegedly raping a Bengal monitor lizard in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) in Maharashtra, a forest official said on Wednesday. The official further told that the incident came to light after four inculpates were held for illegally entering a part of the Reserve called Chandoli National Park. One of the accused was also found to be carrying a hunting gun with him. The bizarre incident reportedly took place at Gothane village in Ratnagiri district. The hideous act was revealed when the accused were probed after being arrested on March 31. The accused were identified as Sandeep Tukaram Pawar, Mangesh Kamtekar, Akshay Kamtekar and Ramesh Ghag, the official told. “During the investigation, the forest officials found that the accused had allegedly raped a Bengal monitor lizard. Their act was also recorded in a mobile phone of one of the accused persons,” he said. “We have recovered all the related evidence from the accused and they were granted forest department custody initially, but are out on bail now,” the forest official said. Nanasaheb Ladkat, field director of Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) said, “The four accused have been booked under various sections of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972”. “They have been asked to mark their presence before the forest officer, who is probing the case, every Monday”, he added.']


4----SUS.NUMBER

men----SUS.GENDER

raping----CRIME.CAT

Bengal monitor lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Sahyadri Tiger Reserve----LOC.EXACT

four----SUS.NUMBER

raping----CRIME.CAT

Bengal monitor lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR)----LOC.EXACT

Maharashtra----LOC.STATE

hunting gun----ITEM

Gothane village in Ratnagiri district----LOC.EXACT

Sandeep Tukaram Pawar----SUS.NAME

Mangesh Kamtekar----SUS.NAME

Akshay Kamtekar----SUS.NAME

Ramesh Ghag----SUS.NAME

raped----CRIME.CAT

Bengal monitor lizard----SP.SPECIFIC
