
['Gujarat Women Perform Garba With Cobra; Booked Under Wildlife Act\nIn a bizarre incident, five persons including a minor girl have been arrested after performing \'Garba\' with snakes in Gujarat\'s Junagadh. The video of the incident went viral on social media, in which women were seen dancing with snakes including a cobra The Forest Department informed that the women performed the dance at a function in Shil village. Deputy Conservator of Forest in Junagarh also said that the accused will be produced in the court. WATCH: Hungry Crocodile chases fish caught on line, scares competition & wins Sunil Berwal, Dy Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Junagarh: Case registered against 5 persons in connection with a viral video in which young girls were seen performing Garba holding cobras at an event on 6 Oct.5 accused, including a 12-yr-old girl, produced in court. #Gujarat pic.twitter.com/kk3vUNNN4O — ANI (@ANI) October 12, 2019 WATCH: Priyanka Chopra dances to the tunes of Falguni Pathak at a Garba event In the video, four to five women were dressed in traditional Garba attire and performed the dance holding snakes in their hands. The forest department took action against the incident after the video went viral. The accused were then booked under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, according to which possession of wild animals without license and permission is a punishable offence. The officials of the forest department also revealed that one cobra snake had been defanged. The Deputy Conservator of Forest Sunil Berwal also said that further investigations are underway in the matter. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, Deputy Conservator of Forest, Sunil Berwal said: "After probing the viral video, we have registered a case against five persons including three women, the organiser of the event and the person who had supplied the snakes." "All have been produced before a court including a 12-year-old girl who was produced in the Juvenile Court," he added. WATCH: Indian Army celebrates Navratri festival with garba performance Here is the video of the incident: WATCH: This video of soldiers performing Garba gets Anand Mahindra\'s salute WATCH: Man Vs Wild: From PM Modi bringing home a crocodile to taking a vacation. Here are top 5 quotes from the episode']


Gujarat----SUS.LOC

Women----SUS.GENDER

Garba----SP.SPECIFIC

Cobra----SP.COMMON

Booked Under Wildlife Act----OUTCOME

five----SUS.NUMBER

Garba----SP.SPECIFIC

Gujarat's----LOC.STATE

Junagadh----LOC.DISTRICT

cobra----SP.COMMON

Case registered against 5 persons in connection with a viral video in which young girls were seen performing Garba holding cobras----OUTCOME

6 Oct.5----DATE

12-yr-old----SUS.AGE

registered a case----OUTCOME

five----SUS.NUMBER

three----SUS.NUMBER

women----SUS.GENDER
