
['Wildlife expert slams WCL, CSTPS for human deaths\nNagpur: Two human deaths in 24 hours — one at the Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) and another in Western Coalfields Limited’s (WCL) Durgapur premises in Chandrapur — have shaken up wildlife experts, who had raised concerns over preventive steps not being taken.On Thursday, a tiger mauled contractual worker Bhojraj Meshram at CSTPS, and late in the night, a leopard killed 16-year-old Raj Bhadke near the Durgapur gram panchayat office.Wildlife expert Kishor Rithe, who is a member of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) and founder of Satpuda Foundation, said the two deaths could have been avoided. He slammed CSTPS as well as WCL for non-compliance. Rithe said the issue was already discussed at length in the SBWL meeting held in Mumbai on December 5, 2018, and WCL was asked to make its area wildlife-unfriendly by removing lantana camara and prosopis juliflora.The then forest minister had gone to the extent of saying that if WCL did not do it within time, the forest department should do it. “However, nothing much has been done on making it unfriendly for widlife habitat. The same issue was raised again in the SBWL meeting on August 7, 2020, about the CSTPS and WCL area,” Rithe said.He added, “I had pointed out that both these agencies must act on a war footing and remove the weeds and shrubs, and take the area under their possession. But a section of officers in WCL and CTPS mounted pressure on the forest department to shift the tigers rather than making their campus wildlife-unfriendly.”Rithe said the problem was not going to be solved on a permanent basis by just shifting a few tigers from the area. “This will be a short-term solution. WCL and CSTPS need to take long-term solutions. The two human deaths could have been avoided had these agencies acted in time,” he added.CSTPS has more than 11,000 hectares area under its possession and making such a big area wildlife-unfriendly is a herculean task, but not impossible, if done systematically as per experts’ advice. The prosopis can be removed successfully only when you understand the other parameters.“But I have not heard of any such technical effort taken by the two agencies. Every time some unfortunate incident happens, WCL and CSTPS officials look at the forest department towards shifting tigers. This is not expected from such responsible agencies. They must consult experts and prepare an action plan and execute it in a time-bound manner. If not, both agencies should be held responsible for the mess,” said Rithe.Carrying out some cosmetic changes like road construction and erecting CCTV cameras won’t ensure the safety of residents and workers in their premises, he further said. “These two agencies have a huge area under their possession, which is close to Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve and the densely-populated Chandrapur. If they do not act, they will be taking the problem to the doorstep of citizens,” Rithe warned.']


WCL----AUTH.SEIZE

CSTPS----LOC.EXACT

Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS)----LOC.EXACT

Western Coalfields Limited’s (WCL) Durgapur premises----LOC.EXACT

Chandrapur----LOC.DISTRICT

night----TIME

leopard----SP.SPECIFIC

Raj Bhadke----SUS.NAME
