
['Two fined after seizure of leopard skin\nPESHAWAR: The wildlife department has fined a shoemaker and a secondhand stuff dealer here after seizing the skins of leopard cats and exotic species. Officials of the wildlife department raided a shop in Namak Mandi bazaar on Tuesday and recovered two pairs of Peshawari chappal, which were made of leopard cat’s skin. An official told Dawn that shoemaker Mohammad Tahir was formally charged with committing the crime under Section 48 of the Wildlife Act, 2015. He said the pairs of chappal were seized and Rs15,000 fine was imposed on the shoemaker. Wildlife dept also books four people for killing common leopard After recovering the pairs of chappal, the officials of the wildlife department raided a warehouse of imported secondhand items in the locality and seized exotic animal skins. The official said Niaz Ali, son of Syed Irshad, who was owner of the warehouse, was charge-sheeted in the case and was fined Rs15,000. Meanwhile, the wildlife department has registered cases against four people for killing a common leopard in Malkoot area of Abbottabad adjacent to Murree. An official told Dawn that a video went viral on social media showing a mob attack a male common leopard with batons and axes. Villager Abdur Rahim, who led the mob, suffered serious injuries when he fell in a deep ravine after the animal attacked him in self-defence. He is under treatment in an Islamabad hospital. The residents claimed that the common leopard entered the village spreading panic. They said the wild animal was killed in self-defence, a claim, which was denied by officials of the wildlife department. A senior official of the department told Dawn that the incident had taken place around two kilometers from the village and the mob chased the animal. He said the terrified animal was hiding in bushes when the people attacked it with stones and batons. “It is very clear from the footage that the animal retaliated in self-defence and that a person, who was leading the mob, fell into a deep ditch,” he said, adding that resident Abdur Rahim had suffered head injuries. The official said the mob beat the animal to death. He said after watching the video, the department submitted a charge-sheet to the court of senior civil judge and four people, including Abdur Rahim and his son. “People should have informed officials of the wildlife department instead of killing the wild animal,” he said. The official said cases had been registered under Sections 12, 16 and 59 of the Wildlife Act. He said the people had offended the animal, which led to its death. Published in Dawn, April 1st, 2021']


Two----SUS.NUMBER

seizure----CRIME.CAT

leopard----SP.COMMON

skin----ITEM

PESHAWAR----LOC.CITY

wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE

fined----CRIME.CAT

a----SUS.NUMBER

shoemaker----SUS.AFFIL

skins----ITEM

leopard cats----SP.COMMON

wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE

raided----CRIME.CAT

Namak Mandi bazaar----LOC.EXACT

Tuesday----DATE

two pairs----QTY

Peshawari chappal----SP.SPECIFIC

leopard cat’s skin----ITEM

shoemaker----SUS.AFFIL

Mohammad Tahir----SUS.NAME

pairs----QTY

chappal----SP.SPECIFIC

four----SUS.NUMBER

common leopard----SP.COMMON

Niaz Ali----SUS.NAME

charge-sheeted in the case----OUTCOME

fined Rs15,000. Meanwhile----OUTCOME

wildlife department----AUTH.MISC

registered cases against----OUTCOME

four----SUS.NUMBER

killing----CRIME.CAT

common leopard----SP.COMMON

Malkoot area----LOC.EXACT

Villager----OFF.DESIG

Abdur Rahim----SUS.NAME
