
["Four Men Booked For Raping Bengal Monitor Lizard In Maharashtra's Sahyadri Tiger Reserve\n(TW: This story contains details of animal abuse; which could be triggering for some readers.) In a never-heard-before case globally, four persons were arrested for allegedly raping a Bengal monitor lizard in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) in Maharashtra. A forest official confirmed the news said on Wednesday. Screengrab The incident at Gothane village in Ratnagiri district came to light days after the four accused were booked for illegally entering Chandoli National Park, part of the reserve.  One of them was even spotted carrying a gun for hunting, added the officer. The official said that the accused were being probed after they were booked on March 31 for illegally entering the forest when the crime came to light. Unsplash The STR is spread over four districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, and Ratnagiri.  Animals He said that the accused were identified as Sandeep Tukaram Pawar, Mangesh Kamtekar, Akshay Kamtekar, and Ramesh Ghag. The internet is disgusted by the news. Here are the first reactions: Screengrab The officer also said that one of the accused recorded the act on his mobile. representational picture “During the investigation, the forest officials found that the accused had allegedly raped a Bengal monitor lizard. Their act was also recorded in a mobile phone of one of the accused persons,” he said.  “We have recovered all the related evidence from the accused, and they were granted forest department custody initially but are out on bail now,” the forest official said. He said they had been asked to mark their presence before the forest officer, probing the case every Monday. “The four accused have been booked under various sections of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972,” field director of Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR), Nanasaheb Ladkat, said. (With PTI inputs) (For more on news and current affairs from around the world, please visit Indiatimes News.)"]


Four----SUS.NUMBER

Men----SUS.GENDER

Raping----CRIME.CAT

Bengal Monitor Lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Maharashtra's----LOC.STATE

Sahyadri Tiger Reserve----LOC.EXACT

four----SUS.NUMBER

arrested----CRIME.CAT

raping----CRIME.CAT

Bengal monitor lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR)----LOC.EXACT

Maharashtra----LOC.STATE

Gothane village----LOC.EXACT

Ratnagiri----LOC.DISTRICT

Sandeep Tukaram Pawar----SUS.NAME

Mangesh Kamtekar----SUS.NAME

Akshay Kamtekar----SUS.NAME

Ramesh Ghag----SUS.NAME
