
['This 7-Month-Old Leopard Was Paralysed In An Accident, Now She’s Learning To Walk Like A Champ\nIt is no secret that humans have encroached upon the habitats of several animals by razing their homes to the ground to build concrete jungles. Our encounters with elephants and leopards have become more frequent and this is in no way a coincidence. Earlier this month, a 7-month-old leopard cub was severly injured after being hit by a speeding vehicle near Itagpuri, Nashik district, Maharashtra. A 7 month old #leopard cub was left paralyzed after it was critically injured in a road accident when trying to cross the road in near #Maharashtra. The young feline is currently undergoing medical treatment and physiotherapy with help from experts at #WildlifeSOS. pic.twitter.com/xmzCiDy2wd — Wildlife SOS (@WildlifeSOS) February 24, 2019 It was brought to the Wildlife SOS leopard rescue department by the forest officials who rescued it. As the doctors examined it, they realised it was paralysed and its chances of recovery were slim. The young feline is currently getting extensive medical care including physiotherapy treatment leg massages and stretching exercises, in the Junnar centre in Pune. She is now beginning to recover and get her spirit back. Not only is she learning to walk again, but she is also trying to frolic around like her old self. Mid-day quoted Dr Ajay Deshmukh – a Senior Veterinarian at the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Centre in Manikdoh – as saying, "X-rays revealed spinal injuries which had caused complete limb paralysis but as the leopard is young, we feel that with proper treatment she might be able to walk again. We are providing regular physiotherapy comprising of stretching exercises, massages and assisted walks. She is getting stronger each day and we have observed signs of movement in her limbs." The man vs wild conflict is growing with each passing day, and unless we find a way to rehabilitate the animals we have displaced and protect the homes of others, it is humans who will find themselves on the losing end of the battle.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

forest officials----AUTH.SEIZE
