
["Bovine horror: Man gets gored by bison after heroically rescuing child from animal's path [WATCH]\nBovine horror KEY HIGHLIGHTS According to a release by National Park Service, the man from Colorado was walking with his family on a boardwalk near Giant Geyser on Monday when a bison charged towards them. The family continued walking after spotting the big bovine. It eventually gored the man, who sustained an injury to is arm. He was rushed to Eastern Idaho Regional Medical Center. The bison almost hit a child but the 34-year-old man was quick enough to snatch him out of the line of attack. Bison attacks are a constant reminder to us humans to keep our distance at national parks. Attacks by large bovines are a natural response to the perceived threat from an individual or group of people. That's why most animal experts believe that bison attacks are normally provoked often by tourists who go too close to the animals. Not all bison attacks make international headlines. But when it happens in one of the most well-known national parks in the world, it's only natural for netizens to take note. In a recent incident, a 34-year-old man was gored by a charging bison at Yellowstone National Park after he heroically saved a child on the rampaging animal's path. According to a release by National Park Service , the man from Colorado was walking with his family on a boardwalk near Giant Geyser on Monday when a bison charged towards them. The family continued walking after spotting the big bovine. It eventually gored the man, who sustained an injury to is arm. He was rushed to Eastern Idaho Regional Medical Center. Watch video: The bison almost hit a child but the 34-year-old man was quick enough to snatch him out of the line of attack. The attack comes a week after Yellowstone National Park partially reopened after flooding led to its temporary closure for the first time in decades. In 2020, a woman in the US managed to save herself from a charging bison by playing dead in front of the large animal. The heart-stopping incident was recorded at Nez Perce Creek at Yellowstone National Park ."]


Bovine----SP.COMMON

bison----SP.COMMON

man----SUS.GENDER

Colorado----SUS.LOC

Monday----DATE

34----SUS.AGE

Monday----DATE

bison----SP.SPECIFIC

34-year-old----SUS.AGE
