
['Jumbos on rampage keep farmers on toes in Magadi\nBENGALURU: Ten days ago, a farmer in Magadi taluk woke up to three wild elephants invading his field. About 500 banana saplings were devoured in no time, causing him a huge loss. Three days ago, a vegetable farm near Savandurga belonging to a farmer named Boralingaiah was raided by another elephant. On Sunday night, a mango farm in VG Doddi of Magadi was destroyed by jumbos.In the past few weeks, instances of elephants raiding farms have become common on the city’s outskirts, especially in Magadi and Nelamangala taluks. The menace is keeping farmers and foresters on their toes as they have to keep night vigil to save crops.Marappa NK, a farmer from Magadi, said a harsh summer and dried water bodies in the forests of Bannerghatta are causing elephants to stray in search of food and water. “The months of March, April and May are a big headache for farmers in the stretch between Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) and Tumakuru, which covers Bidadi, Savandurga, Shivagange, Kyatasandra and Gubbi in Tumakuru. Here, water bodies have adequate supply through a major part of summer. Elephants camp near water bodies like Manchanabele Dam and invade agricultural fields whenever they need food,” he added.Prakash NK, another farmer, said, “Mango and jackfruit are a major attraction for elephants during this season. Farmers in Magadi and Nelamangala grow vegetables, which they supply to Bengaluru.”Thimmarayappa, range forest officer (Magadi), said they are doing their best to keep elephants away. “BNP has around 50 elephants and the food isn’t enough for the huge number. When they wander out of forests during summer, we keep a tight watch to ensure they don’t enter farms. But these animals are intelligent as they move around at night. Elephants have a habit of returning to BNP only after monsoon begins,” he added.Thimmarayappa said they will ensure farmers get compensation as early as possible whenever their fields are raided by elephants.Praveen K, a wildlife enthusiast, said long-term measures like enriching forests with more water holes to harvest water will help in keeping elephants inside the woods. “Growing more bamboo and grasses elephants feed on is also important,” he added.']


Jumbos----SP.SPECIFIC

Magadi----LOC.CITY

Ten days ago----DATE
