
['Ranthambore National Park: Tourist, Guide Fined for Pelting Stones at Sleeping Tiger\nThe first and foremost stipulation for tourists travelling to Ranthambore National Park is “Do not disturb wild animals as they are the actual asset of the park”. We must respect and maintain safe distance from them. It is clearly mentioned or written on Jeep Safari permit that shouting, teasing or attempt to feed animals will invite severe penalties. Jeep Safari inside the core area of Ranthambore National Park has been always thrilling and fun and there could not be anything better than catching the glimpses of wild animals in their natural habitat. But sometimes we become so excited and try to play with them which are highly risky and prohibited inside the park. It may harm us when animals become ferocious. Many cases have been reported in the past where conflicts had been seen between human and animals. In a recent case that took place in Ranthambore, Rajasthan – a tourist and his guide were jointly fined INR 51,000 for apparently pelting stones at a sleeping tiger in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve area in a tender to capture the perfect “action shot”. The incident took place in Pilighat Gate of Zone – 06 where tourists and his guide were spotted tiger resting in his territory. According to a forester “Tourist remained seated in the gypsy with a camera, the guide stepped down and thrown stones on the tiger to make it move”. The act of this cruelty on wild animal was captured in thermal –imaging cameras that are already installed in the park to monitor big cats in the park. After they found violating the proposed rules of Tiger Reserve area, the forest department executive asked them to immediately leave the park and fined a sum of INR 51,000 jointly on them. While going inside the park for a jeep or canter safari, we must keep in mind that jungles are home to wild animals. We should not disturb them at any cost while resting or moving in their own territory. Doing this is a punishable offence and might stop you visiting the national park in near future. Comments comments']


Ranthambore----LOC.EXACT

tiger----SP.COMMON

Ranthambore Tiger Reserve area----LOC.EXACT

Pilighat Gate of Zone – 06----LOC.EXACT
