
["Viral video: Woman in hysterics after spotting monitor lizard in restaurant; climbs chair and ends up in tears\nCredit: ViralHog | Photo Credit: YouTube Key Highlights The clip was shared on YouTube by ViralHog The incident took place in Narathiwat, Thailand The clip has now collected over 14,000 views The sight of a lizard at home or any other place can be intimidating for some people. Things can also become horrifying if the lizard turns out to be bigger than usual. Not so long ago, a video showed a giant monitor lizard scaling the shelves and knocking down products at a supermarket in Thailand. The terrifying scene was filmed at a 7 Eleven store in Thailand and later shared online by Thai travel agency Mundo Nomada. Unsurprisingly, netizens were baffled by the giant reptile, that looked over the store while flicking its tongue in and out. Now, another case involving a lizard at a public place in Thailand has got netizens talking. A woman was left terrified at the sight of a monitor lizard inside a restaurant in Thailand. The incident was caught on camera and shared on the YouTube channel ViralHog. It has now collected over 14,000 views. The 56-second shows a woman standing on a chair and screaming out of fear after spotting the reptile on the floor. A few seconds into the clip, a man is seen trying to move the lizard away from the woman. But he too was afraid to get too close as the reptile darted quickly on the floor. Watch video: As the man tries to direct the reptile away from the restaurant, it snaps its mouth open and lunges at him. He even uses his footwear to scare the reptile. But it didn't do much. Meanwhile, the woman continues to scream loudly. Eventually, the man moves the reptile away from the woman by pinning it down with a long stick. The woman, who seemed to be rubbing her tears, finally calms down and lets out a laugh of relief. The whole scene was witnessed by two other women who were outside the restaurant. According to ViralHog, the incident took place on February 8 at Narathiwat, Thailand."]


monitor lizard----SP.COMMON

Narathiwat, Thailand----LOC.CITY
