
["Despite electric fencing, 'ghost carnivore' infiltrates enclosure killing nine animals in Nagpur\nPug marks indicate that the carnivore could have been a leopard, said officials (Representative Image) | Photo Credit: BCCL Nagpur: Mystery has shrouded the deaths of a four-horned antelope, three blackbucks and five deer whose carcasses were found inside an enclosure at the Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur on Tuesday night. The deaths have left wildlife officials with the Maharashtra forest department trying to ascertain how a carnivore infiltrated the enclosure and managed to kill the animals without being spotted. What is even more baffling is that the enclosure in which the animals were attacked is surrounded by a five-metre-high chain-link fence in addition to a solar-powered electric fence. Officials told Times of India that while they did find pug marks at the spot suggesting that it may have been a leopard who attacked the animals, no major breach was found in the fencing. Nandkishore Kale, the divisional manager of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) told the national daily that there are at least six leopards in the Gorewada reserve forest which are spread across 1,914 hectares. Some of these big cats have been frequenting the enclosures and settlements in Gorewada, he added. (Pug marks similar to this were spotted inside the enclosure) Brought in from different parts of the region for treatment, the deceased herbivores were kept in the enclosure and were supposed to be released into the wild. An official familiar with the matter said that the carnivore who attacked the animals consumed the flesh of one blackbuck while another was left half-eaten. A top official with FDCM told media outlets that an inquiry has been ordered into the matter and forest rangers are looking for a brach int he enclosure which might have enabled the suspected leopard to infiltrate the enclosure. Must Read: Disintegration in Antarctic glacier! 1,000 feet deep cavity lays bare ugly truth"]


ghost carnivore' infiltrates enclosure killing nine animals in Nagpur
Pug marks indicate that the carnivore could have been a leopard, said officials (Representative Image) | Photo Credit: BCCL Nagpur: Mystery has shrouded the deaths of a four-horned antelope, three blackbucks and five deer whose carcasses were found inside an enclosure at the Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur on Tuesday night. The deaths have left wildlife officials with the Maharashtra forest department trying to ascertain how a carnivore infiltrated the enclosure and managed to kill the animals without being spotted. What is even more baffling is that the enclosure in which the animals were attacked is surrounded by a five-metre-high chain-link fence in addition to a solar-powered electric fence. Officials told Times of India that while they did find pug marks at the spot suggesting that it may have been a leopard who attacked the animals, no major breach was found in the fencing. Nandkishore Kale, the divisional manager of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) told the national daily that there are at least six leopards in the Gorewada reserve forest which are spread across 1,914 hectares. Some of these big cats have been frequenting the enclosures and settlements in Gorewada, he added. (Pug marks similar to this were spotted inside the enclosure) Brought in from different parts of the region for treatment, the deceased herbivores were kept in the enclosure and were supposed to be released into the wild. An official familiar with the matter said that the carnivore who attacked the animals consumed the flesh of one blackbuck while another was left half-eaten. A top official with FDCM told media outlets that an inquiry has been ordered into the matter and forest rangers are looking for a brach int he enclosure which might have enabled the suspected leopard to infiltrate the enclosure. Must Read: Disintegration in Antarctic glacier! 1,000 feet deep cavity lays bare ugly truth----SUS.AFFIL
