
['Hen Roaming Around The Pentagon Arrested By Authorities\nIn a bizarre incident, a chicken was caught wandering around a security area at the Pentagon, and has been taken into custody, a local animal welfare organisation said. According to reports, the loose hen was found early Monday morning near the US Department of Defense headquarters, the Animal Welfare League of Arlington, Virginia, said on social media.  Apparently, the answer to "why did the chicken cross the road" is to get to the Pentagon?! This chicken was caught sneaking around the security area at the Pentagon (we\'re not kidding) and our officers picked her up. Now we need a name for her - suggestions welcomed! pic.twitter.com/6RmMSjNKnU — AWLArlington, VA (@AWLAArlington) January 31, 2022 "Apparently, the answer to ‘why did the chicken cross the road’ is to get to the Pentagon," the organisation wrote. The chicken was taken into custody by one of the league’s employees. "Our officers were called to come pick her up. Sgt Ballena brought her safely to the shelter where she\'ll stay until we find a new home for her!" the organisation said. Our officers have chosen the name Henny Penny for our #pentagonchicken, and she will be going to live at a local animal sanctuary very soon! https://t.co/qQ7kfYkocM pic.twitter.com/31gugYE4tR — AWLArlington, VA (@AWLAArlington) February 1, 2022 Chelsea Jones, a spokesperson for the organisation, said that she couldn\'t reveal the exact location of where the chicken was seen. "We are not allowed to disclose exactly where she was found. We can only say it was at a security checkpoint," Jones was quoted as saying by AP. It is also unclear where the chicken came from or how she got to the Pentagon. The hen has brown feathers and a red comb. The bird is now known as Henny Penny. Henny Penny is being adopted by a staff member who has a small farm in western Virginia, Jones said. Wikipedia For more trending stories, click here.']


Hen----ITEM

Arrested----CRIME.CAT

chicken----SP.COMMON

Pentagon----LOC.EXACT

hen----SP.COMMON

Monday----DATE

morning----TIME

chicken----SP.COMMON

Henny Penny----SP.SPECIFIC
