
["[VIDEO] Malaysian soldier grabs king cobra with his bare hands, video goes viral\nMalaysian soldier grabs king cobra with his bare hands | Photo Credit: YouTube Key Highlights The soldier touches the snake’s head with his fingers and pushes it down to the ground before grabbing it. The snake begins to coil and wriggle but the soldier keeps his firm grip locked on the head The King Cobra is a venomous snake species that is capable of delivering a fatal bite. If its venom is delivered in large quantities, the toxins present in it can affect the victim's central nervous system, resulting in severe pain, vertigo, paralysis and even death within 30 minutes. However, all the aforementioned threats completely ignored by a Malaysian soldier, who tackled a king cobra that confronted him on a country path. The viral footage of the incident shows the soldier getting close to the snake and gabbing the serpent’s head with his bare hands. Watch it here: With his hands on his hips, the soldier approaches the snake. He then raises his right hand in the air and slowly lowers it in the direction of the snake’s head. The snake remains completely stationary as the soldier keeps lowering his hand. After a few seconds, he touches the snake’s head with his fingers and pushes it down to the ground before grabbing it. He grapples with the snake for a few seconds before putting his body weight on it. The snake begins to coil and wriggle but the soldier keeps his firm grip locked on the head. Now, the soldier from the Tentera Darat Army has gone viral on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. While many users lauded his snake charming skills, some said the face-off could’ve been fatal. The incident comes just a few days after a terrifying video of a snake latching on to a man's head after he blows at the reptile went viral. The video captured the shocking moment when the snake bit the man. The video is old, but it went viral after it was recently shared by Reptile Hunter on its Facebook page. The snake can be seen snapping at the man suddenly and latching onto his head. The video ends as the man tries to free himself from the reptile's grip."]


grabs----CRIME.CAT

king----SP.SPECIFIC

cobra----SP.COMMON

cobra----SP.COMMON
