
["Rajasthan: Leopard electrocuted after coming in contact with broken power line\nRepresentative Pic Photo : iStock Jaipur : A female A female leopard died in Rajasthan 's Karauli after being electrocuted in the fields near Khanpura village. The news of a dead leopard lying in the fields spread like wildfire and soon, hundreds of villagers congregated on the spot. It is being speculated that the leopard had ventured out to hunt in the night when the incident took place. It stepped on a broken 11KV electricity line that was lying in the fields and got instantly electrocuted due to the high voltage current surging in the power line. Once the information was received, teams of the Forest Department and local police force also reached the spot and sent the corpse of the leopard for post mortem. According to a report in Bhaskar, the leopard was cremated after the post mortem was conducted. The locals said that the 11 KV power line had snapped and was lying in the fields of Kumer Lal Sharma. Since the electricity had not been cut off, it was a live wire with a high voltage current surging through it. The leopard came in contact with the live wire and died on the spot. The estimated age of the leopard is one and a half years. His corpse was spotted by locals Ankit Kumar, Vishal Singh and Ravi who had gone to the fields in the morning. They called the Forest Department officials after spotting the animal lying motionless in the field. The human-animal conflicts have worsened over the years and a number of cases of animal deaths have been due to electrocution. It is not just broken power cables but also electric fences that locals often erect to deter animals from destroying their crops that lead to fatal electrocutions."]


Leopard----SP.COMMON

leopard----SP.COMMON

Khanpura village----LOC.EXACT

leopard----SP.COMMON

leopard----SP.COMMON

Forest Department----AUTH.SEIZE

local police force----AUTH.SEIZE

Ankit Kumar----OFF.NAME

Vishal Singh----OFF.NAME

Ravi----OFF.NAME
