
['Stray Cattle Draw Leopards, Tigers To Human Settlements In Bijnor\nBIJNOR: Stray cattle are not only a nuisance for farmers but in Bijnor, these abandoned uncontrolled herds are worrying the forest department. They say the easy availability of these strays is drawing the predators, especially tigers and leopards, into human habitats. This could also alter "these wild cats\' hunting nature” besides creating man-big cat conflict situations, they add.Bijnor divisional forest officer (DFO) Anil Kumar Patel says, “In 2021, 627 stray cattle were spotted in the forest area. These animals were categorized as ‘van gai’ (forest cow). If these slow-moving cattle are so easily available to the big cats, they will not hunt for fast-moving deer and other prey. The leopards and tigers will move towards the forest fringes, making them susceptible to direct conflict with humans. This is a dangerous trend.”According to data available in the forest department, there are 19,913 animals in Bijnor forest division, including Amangarh Tiger Reserve (ATR) . As per the 2021 census, there were 27 tigers in ATR and close to 32 leopards. This is in addition to 60 leopards thriving on the fringes of the forest area.Talking with TOI, Joel Lyall , author of \'Jungle Tales\', said, "Villagers abandon their cattle in forest areas or its fringes, but the bovines’ nature is to live among humans. They tend to return to populated areas. The strays are also soft targets of the carnivores. If they start preying on them, they will not go after deer, sambhar, cheetals, wild boars and swamp deer. Chasing the cattle, the carnivores will enter human habitats. If adequate efforts are not made in time, it will turn into a big problem in the long run."There are over 15 villages along the ATR. For the villagers, it is the forest department’s responsibility to curb the stray cattle menace. Sunil Kumar of Rehar village said, "It is a big issue. Forest authorities should take appropriate steps to control the stray cattle." DFO Patel said, "Farmers are demanding that stray cattle be shifted to forest land. Stray cattle are domestic animals. We have refused to do so."']


Bijnor----LOC.DISTRICT
