
['35 Deer Died On Iit-m Campus In 6 Months\nCHENNAI: Thirty-five deer have died on the IIT Madras campus from July to December 2021, an RTI reply from the forest department has revealed. Of these, two deer died of tuberculosis, two of weakness, four from various diseases and four due to plastic ingestion, the reply said. Two had bite marks. Data on the remaining deaths was not available as the carcasses were not sent to the forest department for postmortem.IIT-M has been in the news since October 2020 when it impounded 188 stray dogs and placed them in a park on the campus saying they had killed more than 55 deer from 2019 to 2020. However, over two years, about 50 dogs died, 40 were adopted and 41 rescued by NGOs. There is no information/records for the rest. On January 8, 2022, during a hearing in the Madras high court on a petition filed by People for Cattle in India, IIT-M said about 22 dogs were on the campus.Shruti Vinodh Raj, member of Greater Chennai Corporation’s animal birth control monitoring committee member, said, “35 deaths of deer in six months is alarming. The two with bite marks could be post death marks by animals like foxes. This shows IIT-M campus is not suitable for deer due to poor waste management and plastic …”Arun Prasanna, petitioner and animal activist said, “IIT-M has to take measures to eradicate deer deaths. Every death/casualty has to be reported and postmortem done. Spotted deer and blackbuck are protected under Wild Life Protection Act. The forest department must investigate these deaths and book those responsible. It should also investigate why only 14 carcasses were sent for postmortem.”The institute should also bring down pollution, construction. Further, it should bring down the number of residents from the existing 7,000-plus, he said.With the next hearing in the Madras high court scheduled this week, activists demand action against IIT-M for impounding dogs for no reason and continuing to harass dog owners and staff who feed cats on the campus.An IIT-M statement said there were 96 deer deaths on the campus in 2018, 79 in 2019, 83 in 2020 and 53 in 2021. “Deer deaths due to deer dog bites fell from 28 in 2020 to 5 in 2021 as communicated by the wildlife authorities to us on January 7, 2022,” it added. The above data does not include deer/blackbuck injured due to dog bites and taken out by wildlife department for treatment, it said.“IIT-Madras, which has taken rigorous steps to reduce plastic use and eliminate plastic waste on campus, cares for biodiversity and all measures have been taken to keep it safe for the deer.”']


35----QTY

Deer----SP.COMMON

Iit-m----LOC.EXACT

CHENNAI----LOC.DISTRICT

Thirty-five----QTY

deer----SP.COMMON

IIT Madras campus----LOC.EXACT

July to December 2021----DATE

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

deer----SP.COMMON

plastic ingestion----CRIME.CAT
