
['Dolphin attacks trainer during aquarium show in Miami. Spine-chilling video\nIn a post shared on Twitter, PETA shared a video taken at the Miami Seaquarium. In the clip, a trainer can be seen getting snapped at by a dolphin. The dolphin was seen attacking the trainer at the show in Miami. (representational image) By Srimoyee Chowdhury: Dolphins are known to be one of the most docile beings in the ocean world. Several videos prove their adorable antics and sweet behaviour towards humans. But every animal has a limit to being exploited and this shocking video by PETA proves that. In a post shared on Twitter, PETA shared a video taken at the Miami Seaquarium. In the clip, a trainer can be seen getting snapped at by a dolphin during a show. “This chilling video shows a dolphin attacking a trainer, tossing her body violently through the water, & reportedly sending her to the hospital,” read the caption. advertisement Take a look: BREAKING: This chilling video shows a dolphin attacking a trainer, tossing her body violently through the water, & reportedly sending her to the hospital.  Time is up for @MiamiSeaquarium—it must send the animals to seaside sanctuaries! pic.twitter.com/YN27DGygZe — PETA (@peta) April 12, 2022 The video has been viewed over 3,700 times and received several angry comments from netizens. While some expressed how such shows are nothing but animal cruelty, others pointed out that such shows should be banned. "They aren\'t toys. They are wild animals," wrote a Twitter user. "What a shame that we abuse and torture such beautiful creatures and force them to live in captivity all their lives just for 1 hour of our entertainment," commented another. Dolphins desperately need protection and workers are at risk at #MiamiSeaquarium.  The abusement park must end its exploitation of dolphins by getting them to sanctuaries as quickly as possible, so they’d never be used in tawdry shows again and no one else would get hurt. — PETA (@peta) April 12, 2022 It\'s not fair the way these so called "entertainment" facilities do these dolphins! Now someone has been hospitalized, it\'s not the dolphins fault, it\'s the fault of the sea aquariums for the abusive treatment they are put through! The dolphins DON\'T WON\'T TO BE THERE! I\'ve said pic.twitter.com/F9DFlosrl3 — Lori (@Lori33381163) April 13, 2022 GOOD! You want to force animals to do this, then they will fight back! — Bry7076 (@bry7076) April 12, 2022 She shouldn’t be in captivity!! — Retha Crum (@retha_crum) April 12, 2022 What are your thoughts on this video? --- ENDS ---']


Dolphin----SP.COMMON

attacks trainer----CRIME.CAT

Miami----LOC.CITY
