
["Leopard sighting near Bhubaneshwar airport, CM residence triggers panic among locals\nA team of forest rangers were sent to Palaspalli to locate and rescue the animal (Representative Image) | Photo Credit: BCCL Bhubaneshwar: A leopard sighting in Odisha's state capital has triggered panic among locals in Bhubaneshwar's Palaspalli area. The big cat was reportedly spotted about 2 km from the city airport, the Biju Patnaik airport, in an area which neighbours Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik's residence. The matter came to light when locals alerted wildlife officials about the animal scaling a boundary wall and entering the premises of a commercial establishment in the area on Sunday night. Acting promptly, forest rangers dispatched a team of 25 personnel to Palaspalli on Monday after verifying CCTV footage showing the big cat roaming in the area. This is picture of what is reported to be a leopard that entered the premises of a house at Palashpalli last night in #Bhubaneshwar @NewIndianXpress #Odisha pic.twitter.com/Na1qziFw49 — Siba Mohanty (@Siba_TNIE) February 18, 2019 Ashok Mishra, city divisional forest officer told Indian Express, locals have been asked to remain calm and refrain from disturbing the animal if it is spotted again. He added that if disturbed, the animal might turn hostile. Mishra also said that the animal could have strayed from nearby Chandaka forest, adding that it is 'unusual' for a leopard to be spotted in Palaspalli. A similar situation had come to light from Hyderabad last week when a leopard scare gripped areas around the Hyderabad University campus. The big cat was first spotted near the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropic (ICRISAT), an area from where forest rangers captured a leaoped in 2014. While addressing the concerns of local residents, a wildlife official had stated that trap cages and cameras have been set up in the area to rescue the big cat before it causes any harm to locals. Must Read: Starting with secretariat, all public buildings in Odisha may soon be powered by solar energy"]


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Bhubaneshwar airport----LOC.EXACT

forest rangers----AUTH.SEIZE

leopard----SP.COMMON

Bhubaneshwar's Palaspalli area----LOC.EXACT

big cat----SP.COMMON

Biju Patnaik airport----LOC.EXACT

Chief Minister----OFF.DESIG

Naveen Patnaik----SUS.NAME

Sunday----DATE

night----TIME

25 personnel----AUTH.SEIZE

Palaspalli----LOC.CITY

Monday----DATE

leopard----SP.COMMON
