
['Elephant Kills Woman Then Returns to Funeral and Tramples Corpse\nShashank Ranguwar | Updated: Jun 13, 2022 23:47 IST Relevance: GS3, Environment Context: Elephant has killed a woman in Dalma sanctuary, increasing the man-animal conflict. About the news An elephant apparently escaped from the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, trampled an old woman to death. Later, when the family members of the deceased were performing her last rites, the tusker arrived again trampled her dead body. trampled an old woman to death. Later, when the family members of the deceased were performing her last rites, the tusker arrived again trampled her dead body. Apparently, the family was able to continue the ceremony, and the elephant did not return. About Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary is located in the city of Jamshedpur in the state of Jharkhand. Inaugurated in 1975 it is a notable wildlife sanctuary and contains significant population of Indian Elephants. Dalma is known as paradise for elephant. Inaugurated in it is a notable wildlife sanctuary and Dalma is known as Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary is situated around the Dalma Hills. The wildlife sanctuary runs parallel to the NH-33. Flora The forests of Dalma come under the category “Dry peninsular Sal” and “Northern Dry Mixed Deciduous Forest”. and Most part of Dalma forests shed leaves in the summer and attains its full bloom at the onset of monsoon Fauna The wildlife sanctuary has elephants, barking deer, sloth bear and porcupines as the main inhabitants. Know about National Aquatic Animal Of India for IAS Exam Preparations About Indian Elephant The Indian elephant (Elephas maximus indicus) is one of three extant recognised subspecies of the Asian elephant and native to mainland Asia. and Since 1986, the Asian elephant has been listed as Endangered on the IUCN Red List as the wild population has declined by at least 50% since the 1930s to 1940s, i.e. three elephant generations. as the wild population has declined by at least 50% since the 1930s to 1940s, i.e. three elephant generations. The Asian elephant is threatened by habitat loss, human- elephant conflict, degradation and fragmentation. Elephants are not only a cultural icon in India and throughout Asia, they also help to maintain the integrity of their forest and grassland habitats. Continue Reading in App Create Your Free Account to Continue Reading Get Instant Job Alerts for Free! Get Daily GK & Current Affairs Capsule & PDFs Get 100+ Free Mock Tests & Quizzes Sign Up for Free Already have an account? Sign In Continue Reading in App Open in App Create free Account']


Elephant----SP.COMMON

Kills----CRIME.CAT

Elephant----SP.COMMON

killed----CRIME.CAT

Dalma sanctuary----LOC.EXACT

elephant----SP.COMMON
