
["Wild Monkey Attacks And Nearly 'Kidnaps' A Three-Year-Old Girl\nIn a bizarre yet shocking incident, a three-year-old girl was attacked and almost 'kidnapped' by a wild monkey in China. The toddler was seen playing on a scooter outside when the monkey suddenly pounced upon her, shoved her to the ground and swiftly dragged her away. Screengrab/YouTube Luckily, a bystander sprung into action and rescued the child from the clutches of the animal before it could take her away, Global Times reported.  The whole incident, which took place in a village in Southwest China’s Chongqing Municipality, was caught on CCTV. According to the girl’s mother, who has only been identified as Liu, the incident happened on Tuesday afternoon when she was cooking inside. Liu only learned about the horrifying moment from her neighbours before she discovered the dramatic CCTV footage for herself. She immediately reported the incident to the local police and related departments. Fortunately, the girl was not severely injured except for some scratches on her face. According to the local police, the girl will receive further care at a hospital and will be vaccinated. The same monkey had attacked elderly villagers before, villagers said.  Screengrab/YouTube A local villager said told Jimu News that the monkey arrived in the village last May and has formed a troop with two other smaller monkeys. The monkey has previously attacked elderly villagers on multiple occasions but it was the first incident involving a child.  Authorities have since confirmed that they will turn the monkey over to the wild animal protection department once it is caught to protect residents. The local forestry department told the media that attacks by wild monkeys are sporadic incidents and efforts are being made to prevent them from attacking humans again. Follow us on Telegram. "]


Wild Monkey----SP.COMMON

Kidnaps----CRIME.CAT

Three-Year-Old----SUS.AGE

three-year-old----SUS.AGE

girl----SUS.GENDER

wild monkey----SP.COMMON

China----LOC.STATE

CCTV----DETECTION_METHOD

Tuesday----DATE

afternoon----TIME
