
['Bid to prevent illegal owl trade\nPATNA: The state government has taken steps to prevent illegal trade of white owl on the occasion of Diwali. On Diwali night, people worship Goddess Lakshmi. Some people sacrifice the Goddess’s traditional mount, the owl, to ward off bad luck and ensure prosperity.Principal secretary of environment, forests and climate change department Dipak Kumar Singh said sale of owls was illegal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. “We will look into the matter. The pet market in Patna City is a risky place. The department will raid the area with force,” he said.Baheliya (Gulgulwa) and other such nomadic groups usually sacrifice owl for good omen. One such market is Mirshikar toli in Patna City.According to sources, birds are poached for their bones, claws, skulls, feathers, meat and blood, which are then used in talismans, black magic and traditional medicine. Occults prefer owls, especially with ‘ears’ (or tufts), which, many believe, possess greatest magical powers.There are around 30 pet shops in Mirshikar toil. Owls are sold in some of thse shops. The shopkeepers, though, do not put the owls on display along with other animals. They hide them in their storerooms.One of the pet shop owners said they sell owls only during Diwali. “The price ranges from Rs 800 to Rs 2,500 per owl,” he added.In Hindu mythology, owls are believed to be one of the vaahan (vehicle) of Goddess Lakshmi, apart from lotus and elephant. Owls are solitary creatures, which sleep all day and prowl at night. Because of their nocturnal activity, they have been associated with bad luck. People sacrifice this endangered bird during no moon night of Diwali in their hope to please the Goddess.Hunting and trade of owl species is banned. According to International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), 33 species of owls have been tagged as critically endangered in India.Arvind Mishra, state coordinator of Indian Bird Conservation Network, said he had raised his voice against such atrocities of endangered species for long. “The state government is not willing to do anything,” he added. Mishra said the shopkeepers at Mirahikhar Toli even sell extinct barn owls.']


owl----SP.COMMON
