
['Rat Rodent Pest Control Services\nRat Rodent Pest Control Services Rats or Rodents are also known as mice. They occur everywhere especially unhygienic conditions where they get food & shelter to stay. Open dustbins, gutters, farms are the most liking places for Rats. Congested places like schools & colleges close areas like the library, offices storerooms are the most popular places where they get shelter to stay. Rats destroy our most valuable things if we cannot control them. Rats are not only destroying valuable things but also contaminates food also. This will cause very harmful effects on the human body as they are responsible for spreading diseases. Rats bite spreads diseases like fever, Leptospirosis, plague. So Control on Rats is very necessary by professionals. Call us for Rat Rodent Pest Control Services for residential and commercial and get rid of this problem forever. We are at Core pest control providing best services to overcome Rats & Rodent control. We are not only give solutions to die or kill Rodent permanently but also prevent Rats to enter in your premises. We are using chemical free products which are harmless to human beings. We have many products to prevent entry of rodents. Our Technical team first analyse the place & give appropriate solutions to control on Rats. Pest Control Services for Rat and Rodents Our company is the top leading Pest Control Services for Rat and Rodents in Mumbai. We have Gel base poison like chemical which is harmful to Rodent only. In this method, chemical is mix with food and kept at places where rats occur most. They will eat this food & die within a minutes. We have variety of Rodent trap also. These products are available easily in the market. One can easily use these products means there is no need for professional advice. Rodents are easily attracted to trap pads and stuck easily. These are the glue-based trap. From these Rodent Traps, rats did not die but it will prevent the entry of Rats if we place these types of products at the main entry. We provide Monthly, Quarterly & Yearly treatment depending on the severity of pests. We provide the best treatment to our customer as per need to overcome Rodents problem.']


Rat Rodent----SP.COMMON
