
['Jammu and Kashmir: 4 injured in Bear attack in Pulwama\nRepresentational Image Photo : iStock Srinagar : Four persons were injured in a bear attack on Friday in Jammu and Kashmir ’s Pulwama district. According to police sources, the bear attacked and injured two persons in Tahab village. Later, the same bear attacked 2 persons in adjacent Maloora village, reported IANS. The injured victims of the attack were then shifted to the hospital. One of them was later shifted for specialised treatment to Srinagar. According to IANS, officials of the wildlife protection department have rushed to the area to relocate the bear. In a similarly horrific incident earlier this month a bear mauled a couple to death in Madhya Pradesh. The animal then proceeded to eat their body parts for four hours. It may be noted that bear attacks on humans, where the animal feeds on the victim are very rare. According to reports, the couple—Mukesh and Gudiya were returning from Khermai temple, situated around one and-half kilometres from the district headquarters at around 6.30 am on Sunday when their paths crossed with a bear, less than 1 km from their house. Though the couple confronted the bear together to save each other, they were ripped to pieces by the animal. Eyewitnesses told police that the bear tore apart their body parts, and dragged them to a ravine where it fed on them for four hours. Though locals tried to chase away the animal while it was eating the victims, their efforts went in vain. The bear was caught after five hours only after the officials of the forest department reached the spot after receiving information and managed to tranquilize the sloth bear.']


Jammu and----LOC.STATE

Kashmir----LOC.STATE

4----SUS.NUMBER

Bear----SP.COMMON

Pulwama----LOC.DISTRICT

Four----SUS.NUMBER

bear----SP.COMMON

Friday----DATE

Jammu and Kashmir----LOC.STATE

Pulwama----LOC.DISTRICT

bear----SP.COMMON

Tahab village----ROUTE.SRC

Maloora village----LOC.EXACT

shifted to the hospital----OUTCOME

wildlife protection department----AUTH.SEIZE

Mukesh----SUS.NAME

Gudiya----SUS.NAME

6.30 am----TIME

Sunday----DATE

bear----SP.COMMON

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE
