
['This ground beetle fires a boiling-hot, explosive chemical spray from its butt\nAn exothermic reaction heats the nasty mixture up to 100°C | Image courtesy: American Museum of Natural History KEY HIGHLIGHTS Bombardier beetles get their name from their ability to produce chemical explosions. When threatened, they unleash a boiling-hot, toxic liquid on their attackers which can be as hot as 100°C. Beetles, restricted by their wings to escape a situation instantly, evolved this ability as a defence mechanism. Monikers like “killer whale” given to orcas or “red panda” used to describe a mammal which is neither of those things are often misleading. However, there’s one formidable ground beetle that is aptly called the bombardier beetle for its deadly defence mechanism. There are 500 species of this nocturnal nightmare that collectively inhabit every continent on Earth except Antarctica. Why ‘Bombardier’ Beetle? The bombardier beetle gets its name from its ability to discharge “chemical bombs” when threatened. Beetles evolved this emergency defence since they can’t fly away instantly when attacked, unlike other insects. This is because their wings are stored under wing covers that have to be released before taking flight, and predators in the wild don’t generally wait for the playing field to become even-stevens. However, what bombardier beetles lack in escaping skills, they more than make up for in the offensive. Virtually, no other animal preys on them due to the scalding chemical spray the beetles release when they suspect danger. The bombardier beetle produces a chemical explosion inside its abdomen and unleashes bursts of boiling, irritant liquid on its attackers, predominantly ants. Related News Dodo DNA breakthrough could lead to the revival of the famous but extinct bird Predators be warned! The bombardier beetle has an explosive defense. It mixes chemicals w/ catalysts in the rear of… t.co/GWBPVTN1YO — ANI (@ANI) Mar 24, 2018 What makes the attack so deadly? The beetles eject a liquid called benzoquinone, which is not an uncommon defensive secretion in insects. Except, bombardier beetles are unique in their ability to superheat the liquid and fire it in intense, repetitive jets. They synthesise the chemical right before expelling it, mixing the contents of two separate glands in a protective chamber inside its hindparts. One chamber houses hydrogen peroxide and hydroquinone, while the other contains a mixture of two enzymes that can react with hydrogen peroxide to produce oxygen and water. The oxygen in turn reacts with hydroquinone, converting it into benzoquinone. This exothermic reaction can heat the chemical mixture up to 100°C. The pressure due to oxygen buildup causes this nasty mixture to be released with a “pop”. Bombardier beetles can launch these “chemical bombs” up to 20 times before the ammunition gives out, according to the Office for Science and Society. By that time, they will have unfurled their wings and left their attackers behind in a hot, toxic mess..']


ground beetle----SP.SPECIFIC

Bombardier’ Beetle----SP.SPECIFIC
