
['Great Indian Hornbill tortured before being killed, video goes viral\nNagaland hornbill killing (Pic courtesy: Instagram) Photo : Times Now Kohima: In yet another incident of cruelty to animals, a Great Indian Hornbill was tortured and killed in Nagaland. The bird was brutally tortured before being killed. The video of the horrific incident has gone viral on social media. The incident took place in Wokha district of Nagaland. Police have now arrested three people in connection with the incident. The accused were arrested on Monday for allegedly killing the protected wildlife. The accused are likely to remain in police custody for 24 hours as wildlife protection proceedings will be initiated against the accused, who have been moved to Wokha headquarters, according to a report in news agency UNI. Disturbing visual. Viewers\' discretion advised The Great Hornbill is a protected bird and is listed as \'vulnerable\' by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The killing of the bird reportedly took place in Bhandari village in Wokha district. However, when the bird was killed is not known yet. The matter came to light after a video of the incident went viral on June 6 and the wildlife department took cognisance of the matter. Later, a complaint was filed in this regard. The disturbing video shows the people killing the bird by holding its tail feathers. Following a complaint by the wildlife department, the three accused were arrested by police from Bhandari village. The case is now expected to be taken over by Wokha wildlife department. Meanwhile, an NGO Green Succession of Nagaland State has lauded the efforts of police and wildlife department officials to bring the culprits to book. "It is indeed too cruel and insane to have acted in such a manner and the culprits should be booked under appropriate sections of Wildlife Protection Act," the report quoted from NGO\'s press statement.']


Great Indian Hornbill----SP.SPECIFIC

tortured----CRIME.CAT

Nagaland----ROUTE.TRANSIT

hornbill----SP.COMMON

Great Indian Hornbill----SP.SPECIFIC

tortured and killed----CRIME.CAT

Nagaland----LOC.STATE

Wokha district----LOC.DISTRICT

Nagaland----LOC.STATE

arrested----OUTCOME

three----SUS.NUMBER

Monday----DATE

killing----CRIME.CAT

Bhandari village----LOC.EXACT

Bhandari village----SUS.LOC

booked under appropriate sections of Wildlife Protection Act----OUTCOME
