
['J&K: Villagers kill leopard, peel off skin after it attacks seven locals\nChief wildlife warden said that the villagers had even peeled off skin the leopard\'s skin after lynching it to death. (Representative image: Reuters) Police on Friday registered a case against a group of people in south Kashmir\'s Kulgam district for lynching a leopard after it attacked and injured seven villagers. Chief Wildlife Warden, J&K, Suresh Gupta, said that he has directed concerned officials to file a case against the people who lynched the leopard in broad-daylight in Damhal Hanjpora village of Kulgam district. "Action will be taken against them as per the law," Gupta said. On Thursday, a leopard ventured into the Khud Hanjipora village of the district and pounded upon a group of villagers. At least seven villagers were injured by leopard before the locals cornered the beast and lynched it to death. "The leopard didn\'t fall in our trap. The leopard was killed by villagers in self-defense after it injured eight villagers. It was a brutal attempt by the villagers," Wildlife Warden Rouf Ahmad Zargar told India Today TV. He said the body of the leopard was dumped at a Nallah and some miscreants had peeled off its skin from parts of its body. "The body was taken into custody and post-mortem conducted. We have filed a case against the miscreants," he said. A letter written by the wildlife warden, south Kashmir, to the police has sought strict action against the culprits. "Initially, it was observed that the animal has been killed in self-defense, but, after observing the video and on noticing that skin is missing from some portion from the body, it depicts that the death of common leopard was not a case of self-defense, rather was an intentionally done to get some body parts. The case is a sheer violation of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and completely shows the intention of poaching," the letter written to the Duty Officer, Police Post Manzgam, reads.']


Villagers----SUS.AFFIL

kill----CRIME.CAT

leopard----SP.COMMON

Friday----DATE

registered a case----OUTCOME

Kulgam district----LOC.DISTRICT

lynching----CRIME.CAT

leopard----SP.COMMON

seven----SUS.NUMBER

a case against the----OUTCOME

Damhal Hanjpora village----LOC.EXACT
