
['Rhino killed by poachers in Kaziranga National Park\nA CORRESPONDENT  NUMALIGARH : A rhino was found dead on Saturday morning in the north of Meteka Beel under Gabrai anti-poaching camp in Kaziranga National Park (KNP). According to KNP authorities, the rhino was an adult female and was killed due to gunshots. Six rounds of empty cartridges of .303 rifle were recovered from the spot. The horn of the rhino was taken away by the poachers. Eastern-Assam wildlife division DFO, Ramesh Kr. Gogoi said, "On August 7, the forest staff of Gabrai, Borbeel tower and Kathanibari camp heard six rounds of gunshots at around 3.00 pm. The foresters also launched a massive manhunt in search of the poachers during the night near the Brahmaputra. On early morning, following the footprints of the poachers, the carcass of the rhino was recovered." Meanwhile, a suspected poacher was detained in Biswanath wildlife division and investigation is on. In the year 2019, only three rhino poaching cases were reported and it was the lowest when we look back to the data of rhino poaching cases of the last few years. However, this is the third case of rhino poaching in 2020. Earlier in the month of May this year, foresters recovered the carcass of a rhino near Duamari Beel under Eastern Range Agoratoli of the park. Poachers chopped off its horn and fled. However, police and foresters succeeded to nab the poachers behind this sensational rhino killing later. Also watch: CHECK OUT: Likham: The Book Made of Gold  ']


Rhino----SP.COMMON

killed----CRIME.CAT

poachers----SUS.AFFIL

Kaziranga National Park----LOC.EXACT

rhino----SP.COMMON

Saturday----DATE

morning----TIME

Kaziranga National Park (KNP----LOC.EXACT

rhino----SP.COMMON

gunshots----CRIME.CAT

Six----QTY

empty cartridges of .303 rifle----ITEM

horn----ITEM

rhino----SP.COMMON

poachers----SUS.AFFIL

DFO----OFF.DESIG

August 7----DATE

3.00 pm----TIME

carcass----ITEM

a suspected poacher was detained in Biswanath wildlife division and investigation is on----OUTCOME
