
['Indo-China pangolin smuggling racket: Madhya Pradesh forest deparment makes 189th arrest from Odisha\nBHOPAL: The special task force (STF) of the wildlife wing of Madhya Pradesh forest department have apprehended two persons from Odisha who were wanted in connection with the Indo-China pangolin syndicate.This is the 189th arrest in the country’s biggest ever poaching network cracked by the STF. Remaining 187 were arrested from 14 states in the last seven years.Accused Shamsuddin Khan of Khurda district and Kurban Ali – resident of Brahmpur Ganjam were on STF’s radar during investigations into a turtle poaching syndicate operating in MP-UP area. They were on the run for the last seven years.Officials suspect this gang was behind poaching of hundreds of Chambal turtles in the last few years, for consumption and supply to some hotels in the two states besides smuggling it to foreign countries.They are said to be associated with the international poaching syndicate involved in smuggling pangolin scales to China and Vietnam. The MP forest department had cracked the network with the arrest of its kingpin. Interpol’s help was also being sought.Pangolin scales, which are a rage in China for its aphrodisiac properties, are now hot property of party animals in America. A recent Interpol report states that 26% scales of the endangered species are being routed to the US party circuit.While the Chinese fetish for pangolins was well-known and triggered the crackdown on the racket with Myanmar links, the spiralling use of its scales for manufacture of crystal methamphetamine, an ingredient of the party drug popularly known as crystal meth, crank, speed or ice had been giving Madhya Pradesh forest special task force another headache. STF has also approached the narcotics wing of the state police for assistance after the scam kingpin, a Myanmar national, made fresh revelations.Scales contain Tramadol HCL, which is a substance binder particle found in psychotropic drugs like methamphetamine and this makes pangolin the most smuggled wild animal on earth, said STF sources.The ant-eating mammal with armour of keratin scales has been listed under Schedule 1 of Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as an endangered species. Experts said, “If poaching continues, pangolins could face extinction.”Officials claim there are two smuggling routes to China — Nepal through north Bengal and Myanmar through Manipur. Local poachers are paid Rs 6,000 for scales of an ant-eater, which weighs around 1.3 to 2 kg. It is resold for Rs 15,000 to middlemen and Rs 30,000 to those who export the animal. In the internationale market, it fetches 30 times more than poachers get as their cut.In traditional Chinese medicine, roasted pangolin scales are used for detoxification of blood, draining pus, curing palsy and stimulating lactation. Using its blood to treat asthma, cancer and reproductive problems is also a common practice in China.Pangolins are found mostly in south-eastern parts of Madhya Pradesh, especially Pachmarhi area of Hoshangabad, Chhindwara , Balaghat and Seoni districts of the state. Madhya Pradesh, which is largely focused on tiger conservation, does not have any project to protect this endangered mammal.']


pangolin----SP.COMMON

Madhya Pradesh forest deparment----AUTH.SEIZE

Odisha----LOC.STATE

special task force (STF)----AUTH.SEIZE

two----SUS.NUMBER

Odisha----LOC.STATE

Indo-China pangolin syndicate.This----SUS.AFFIL

Shamsuddin Khan----SUS.NAME

Khurda district----SUS.LOC

Kurban Ali----SUS.NAME

narcotics wing----AUTH.MISC
