
['In a first, PCCF orders capture of 4 tigers from CSTPS\nChandrapur: With pressure mounting on the forest department to remove tigers from Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS), Sunil Limaye, principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife, on Sunday granted permission for capturing four big cats from the power plant area.This is for the first time order has been issued to capture four tigers at one go.As reported by TOI two days ago, based on the recommendation of a six-member committee, the Chandrapur CCF had sent a proposal for capturing four tigers following standard operating procedure (SOP) of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).In January 2020, the PCCF (wildlife) had ordered to capture three tigers — two from CSTPS and one problem tiger from Nagbhid. The two tigers from the power plant were not involved in any conflict then. Of the four tigers to be captured now, a sub-adult one had attacked a worker two days ago.If captured, the tigers will not to be released in the wild. Instead, they will be sent to zoos or safaris, as per recommendations of a committee of state board for wildlife.Official sources said that an extensive operation has already been launched to tranquilize and capture a female tigress, its two sub-adult cubs, and a dominant male tiger. Four baits have been laid at strategic positions and over 40 camera traps installed to track movements of the beasts. Also, two teams comprising 20 members of Quick Response Teams and Rapid Response Unit have been deployed.Energy minister Nitin Raut, who visited CSTPS on Sunday, announced a slew of precautionary measures and appointed a committee headed by the district collector to monitor them and ensure coordination between different government departments.Two human kills in CSTPS and neighbouring WCL Durgapur area in predator attacks within a span of 24 hours had sparked protests against the forest department along with Mahagenco and WCL. The workers of CSTPS and WCL stepped up the demand for safety from predators prowling in human habitations on the outskirts of Chandrapur city. They had received support from leaders of all political parties.Acting divisional forest officer (DFO), Prashant Khade confirmed the launch of the operation in CSTPS and asked people in Urjanagar, Durgapur, Padmapur villages and Ayyappa Mandir, Nehru Nagar and Rashtrawadi Nagar localities to avoid going out alone in the night and early morning hours.The forest department is going to install banners and hoardings and distribute handbills detailing the dos and don’ts.In a meeting held with divisional commissioner, collector, SP, senior officers of forest department, CSTPS and WCL, state wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre, Raut discussed the issue of tigers entering industrial areas. He claimed that the presence of over half-a-dozen tigers in the industrial area puts the lives of workers and citizens in danger.The minister also assured to implement precautionary measures suggested by the forest department. He stressed the need for a study to ascertain reasons for tigers leaving forest and entering the industrial area. He also said discussion was held with PCCF on capturing and relocating the tigers.Raut said no worker will be allowed into the plant on two-wheelers or cycles. “The company will arrange for their transport. If necessary, funds will be allocated for it,” he said.He claimed surveillance towers are being built along the wall of CSTPS and those will be manned 24x7. A control room will be set up to monitor the entire security, he said.The minister also announced a biodiversity project at CSTPS. “A separate wing is needed in the energy department to maintain biodiversity at power plants. This will not only help control pollution but also make the area uninhabitable for tigers and other predators,” said Raut.']


PCCF----AUTH.SEIZE

4----QTY

tigers----SP.COMMON

Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS)----LOC.EXACT

Sunil Limaye----OFF.NAME

principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife----OFF.DESIG

Sunday----DATE

four----QTY

Quick Response Teams----AUTH.SEIZE

Rapid Response Unit----AUTH.SEIZE
