
["Autopsy Confirms Boy Was Killed By Wild Animal\nBHOPAL: A day after the half eaten body of a 7-year-old boy was recovered in a wooded area of the Dronanchal campus , Nishatpura police on Friday received his full autopsy report, which said it was a wild animal that attacked and killed Ritik Bhamore.The short post-mortem report had also suggested it was a wild animal. There were deep injury marks on his head and body and signs that a wild animal had dragged him over the stones, say sources.The report says the boy bled to death.A forest department team continued to search the area for wild animals. Some officials said that the boy was attacked by a jackal, but police are yet to confirm it.The forest department will continue its investigation, said officers.Ritik’s mother Preeti’s statements were recorded on Friday, said investigation officer ASI Chhatrapal said . She has not raised any suspicion nor suspected any foul play. She stated that she does not have any rivalry with anyone and maintained that the boy was killed by a wild animal.Ritik lived in the servant quarters built inside Dronanchal campus along with his mother Preeti and younger four-year-old brother. The family hails from Singot village in Pandhana tehsil of Khandwa district.Ritik left home with his mother and younger brother to ride his bicycle on Wednesday night. His mother and brother returned home around 11.30pm while he stayed back to play. When he didn't return home till 4am, his mother went out to search for him along with her maternal uncle Mahesh and found him lying in a pool of blood in the bushes near Parmeshwar Pond in Dronanchal. A stray dog was feeding on the corpse.A joint team of district administration, police, forest department and Army conducted a search of the area and burst firecrackers to scare off wild animals.The forest team found tracks of wild animals like jackals and wild boar in the area. Search operation continued on Friday."]


Boy----SUS.GENDER

Nishatpura police----AUTH.SEIZE

Friday----DATE

Ritik Bhamore.The----SUS.NAME

Preeti----SUS.NAME

Preeti----SUS.NAME

Singot village in Pandhana tehsil of Khandwa district.Ritik----SUS.LOC

Wednesday----DATE

night----TIME

11.30pm----TIME

district administration----AUTH.SEIZE

police----AUTH.SEIZE

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

Army----AUTH.SEIZE
