
['Dead Birds Fall From The Sky And Rain Down on Cars\nThere are dead birds falling from the sky and raining down on cars over at Pembrokeshire in Wales, UK. An environmental enthusiast has even stated unequivocally that whatever caused the catastrophe was manmade without a doubt. A woman travelling home was met with a “eerie sight” as she stumbled upon deceased birds on a Pembrokeshire roadway, reported Wales Online. As she drove through Waterston and Hazelbeach on Thursday evening, Michaela Pritchard described the scene as a “massacre.” There appeared to be very little explanations for why roughly 200 birds died so abruptly, with several turning to the adjacent Dragon LNG project as a probable cause. One witness in adjacent Waterston said he noticed a large blast before seven or eight birds poured down over his car. Subscribe to GreatGameIndia Other possibilities for the birds’ deaths included electrocution or even being pursued by a bird of prey at dusk before collapsing on the road surface. The dead starlings on the road (Image: Michaela Pritchard) The dead birds made for an ‘eerie’ sight (Image: Michaela Pritchard) Michaela claimed she didn’t stay because it was such an unsettling spectacle, so instead called Pembrokeshire Council to describe what she’d witnessed. She claimed they already were lifeless when she discovered them at 8 p.m. What do you believe happened? Leave your thoughts in the comments area. Ian Mccaffrey, who works in Waterston, said that some birds dropped from the sky into his car shortly after hearing a loud “electrical-type” crash. He said: “When I left work last night [Thursday] I heard a bang and then a load of birds landed on my car.” He estimated that at minimum six had fallen on the surface and added: “Every now and again you will hear a bang that is coming from what I think is a crow-scarer that farmers use. However this bang was more like an electrical bang – not quite as loud as lightning but similar. “It’s like there were hundreds of birds in the sky and all of a sudden they just died and fell to the ground. It was quite surreal last night to be honest with you – not something I have ever experienced before.” Claire Eaton, who resides along the road, walked out around 11 p.m. and described the scene as “traumatic.” She assumed the birds must have “died on impact,” but she also attempted to scoop up one of several stunned birds and bring it home alive. She intends to release it later today. Claire Eaton said the whole experience was ‘traumatic’ (Image: Claire Eaton) The starlings were dead as they hit the tarmac (Image: Claire Eaton) “About an hour before I was at Neyland Marina walking my dog and I saw a big flash and I didn’t think anything of it,” she said. “Maybe something spooked them and they flew into the pylons.” The environmental enthusiast stated unequivocally that whatever caused the catastrophe was “manmade.” She added: “I feel quite passionate about it – I think we should respect wildlife more in general.” One starling survived (Image: Claire Eaton) According to a Dragon LNG spokesperson, nothing out of the ordinary occurred at the facility on Thursday, and operations continued as scheduled. She added: “It’s in the vicinity but it’s normal operations at Dragon LNG. There was nothing different at the plant.” The event was reported to Pembrokeshire Council, which claimed it was aware of it. A spokesman added: “We received a call at around 9pm on 10 February regarding a number of dead starlings on the Hazelbeach Road, Waterston. “Officers attended the site and there were around 200 starlings found dead on the road. The authority undertook a clean-up and removed the dead birds from site. “There is no clear indication as to the cause of these deaths. We have reported the incident to the Animal and Plant Health Agency.”']


Birds----SP.COMMON

birds----SP.COMMON

Pembrokeshire----LOC.DISTRICT

Wales----LOC.STATE

UK----LOC.STATE

night----TIME

Thursday----DATE

p.m.----TIME

call----DETECTION_METHOD

10 February----DATE
