
['Thane: Leopard’s head stuck in plastic jar; video goes viral\nLeopard head stuck in a plastic jar Key Highlights A group of people travelling in a car spotted the leopard Maharashtra Forest Department has begun the search operation The incident occurred in the Girda village of the district Mumbai: Irresponsible behaviour of some people venturing into the forest for partying is posing a grave threat to the wild animals. A leopard was spotted with its head stuck inside a plastic jar was spotted near Badlapur in Thane district. Maharashtra Forest Department has begun the search operation. A video that went viral on social media showed the leopard struggling due to the plastic jar being stuck in its head. The reason how the leopard got its head stuck in the plastic jar is still unknown. A group of people travelling in a car spotted the leopard, but it disappeared into the wilderness as they tried to get close to it. Another similar incident In another incident on February 5 in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district, a woman took on a leopard and saved her six-year-old daughter from the attack. The girl was playing in the courtyard of her house when she was attacked. Upon hearing her daughter’s screams, the woman attacked the leopard with a heavy stick. The leopard then fled from the spot. A team of forest officials arrived at the spot after learning about the incident. The girl was seriously injured in the leopard attack. She was referred to a district hospital by the primary healthcare centre, according to a report in Hindi daily Hindustan. The leopard attacked the girl and tried to drag her away. She sustained injuries on her face and head. The leopard is believed to have come from the Naanpara range of Bahraich forest division.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

head----ITEM

plastic jar----CONCEALMENT_METHOD

Leopard----SP.COMMON

car----TRANSPORT_MODE

Maharashtra Forest Department----AUTH.SEIZE

Girda village----LOC.EXACT

Mumbai----LOC.CITY

leopard----SP.COMMON

Badlapur----LOC.DISTRICT

Thane----LOC.DISTRICT

Maharashtra Forest Department----AUTH.SEIZE

leopard----SP.COMMON

February 5----DATE

Bahraich----LOC.DISTRICT
