
['Assam: Rs 6 lakh bounty on 3 Kaziranga rhinoceros poachers\nGUWAHATI: Assam police on Wednesday announced a cash reward for three wanted rhino poachers, suspected to be involved in the recent poaching in Kaziranga National Park, who are on the run.A bounty of Rs 6 lakh for the poachers (Rs 2 lakh against each) has been announced by the police. Moreover, another cash reward of Rs 5 lakh has been announced to the person who gives information leading to the recovery of the poached rhino horn.The wanted men are Asmat Ali alias Nalco (35) of Milonpur village, Ataur Rahman alias Bassa (35) and Abdul Matin alias Kala (36) of No. 1 Adabheti village under the Sootea police station in Biswanath district.Biswanath district superintendent of police Leena Doley told TOI, "Police had arrested a poacher from Golaghat in connection with the recent poaching in the Kaziranga National Park. Based on his confession, names of these three accused came up. Therefore, police have announced cash rewards."The carcass of a 30-year-old rhino was recovered in the Kohora range of the park on January 20 with gunshot wounds. The horn was found missing from the carcass. Forest officials and veterinarians had suspected the death at least five days ago.It was the first poaching case in the park this year. The case was reported just four days after the state government had claimed lowest rhino poaching in the park last year since 2000.Two days after the carcass was recovered, special director general of police GP Singh, who is also the head of the anti-poaching task force, had visited the park and personally monitored the investigation. "Assam police and forest department will eliminate the menace of rhino poaching from Assam," Singh said.']


Assam----LOC.STATE

Rs 6 lakh----VALUE

3----SUS.NUMBER

Kaziranga rhinoceros poachers----SUS.AFFIL

Assam police----AUTH.SEIZE

Wednesday----DATE

three----SUS.NUMBER

Kaziranga National Park----ROUTE.SRC

Asmat Ali----SUS.NAME

Nalco----SUS.NAME

35----SUS.AGE

Milonpur village----SUS.LOC

Ataur Rahman----SUS.NAME

35----SUS.AGE

Abdul Matin----SUS.NAME

Kala----SUS.NAME

36----SUS.AGE

No. 1 Adabheti village----SUS.LOC

Golaghat----SUS.LOC

carcass----ITEM

rhino----SP.COMMON

Kohora range of the park----LOC.EXACT

January 20----DATE

horn----ITEM
