
['Man wards off black bear in forest by using bear spray; tense encounter goes viral [WATCH]\nMan wards off black bear in forest by using bear spray KEY HIGHLIGHTS Matwishyn said he was out photographing a bear from a safe distance when the animal suddenly caught sight of him. He said black bears usually run away when they encounter a person in the wild. But this one was \'behaving oddly\'  Matwishyn kept walking back towards his car while holding out the bear spray container, pointing it towards the animal.  It\'s not very wise to take photos or come close to a wild animal in the forest without the presence of an expert. This shocking incident should be seen as a warning. A clip shared online shows a man escaping from a black bear in the forest by using bear spray. The clip was posted first on the Reddit forum "That\'s Insane" by Curtis Matwishyn. According to the description text of the video on YouTube, the incident occurred on June 1 in Saskatchewan, Canada. Matwishyn said he was out photographing a black bear from a safe distance when the animal suddenly caught sight of him. He said black bears usually run away when they encounter a person in the wild. But this one was \'behaving oddly\' "It came towards me and followed me even after I stood my ground, shouted, and waved my arms at it. Luckily I had bear spray and prepared myself to use it if the bear charged at me," he said. Watch video: Matwishyn kept walking back towards his car while holding out the bear spray container, pointing it towards the animal. When the bear followed him, he got into a good position and used the spray. "Thankfully the bear spray worked as designed and sent the bear running away," he said. Matwishyn confirmed to Newsweek that the encounter took place outside of Waskesiu Lake in Prince Albert National Park in Canada. The clip has now collected over 13,000 views after being shared by ViralHog. Netizens praised Matwishyn for staying calm in such a dangerous situation. A user wrote "Handled that really well dude. Nice calm attitude, and just a little spritz of spray to end the encounter. Nice work." "This was a perfect execution of a bear encounter avoidance. This bear was likely a juvenile who was curious, or looking to practice territorial dominance," wrote another.']


wards----CRIME.CAT

black bear----SP.COMMON

black bear----SP.COMMON

June 1----DATE

Waskesiu Lake in Prince Albert National Park----LOC.EXACT
