
["Stuck In 'Development': Elephant Broke A Walled Construction, When It Was Unable To Get Out\nMost human development and settlement has taken place at the cost of destruction of habitat of wildlife. Modernization and industrialization required humans to encroach land that belonged to animals. Sometimes when those animals come back looking for their original habitat, they find humans settled there and human ‘inventions’ are not as convenient to them as they are to us. An elephant and its calf got trapped inside a walled campus and could not make their way out. The video of their struggle is going viral on Twitter. Shared by Twitter user named @VaibhavSinghIFS the video is captioned, ‘A mother and her calf after being trapped inside a walled campus situated in Rawasan-Sonanadi corridor , try to squeeze their way out!!’ Rawasan-Sonanadi corridor is in Uttarakhand, however it is not clear when the video was shot. In the video one can see that an elephant and its calf are in a campus where iron gates are closed, however, there is a walled entrance (or exit) right beside the gate. Finding no other way out, the elephant along with the calf try to make its way through. In the video people can be heard expressing their surprise at the elephant’s method of escape. They initially thought that it made out but a few seconds later someone can be heard saying, “phans gaye vo” (they are stuck). Even as people around kept making videos no one came forward to help, probably because of the fear that the elephant might flip. For sometime the elephant can be seen struggling in trying to get out of walled construction. Finally, after realizing there was probably no easy way to get out the elephant, broke the entrance with what seemed like the slightest force and got out. This is how some people reacted. Well done that elephant, she got out — Charley (@IanCharmi) December 4, 2019 real sad situation. disgusting what we have made of this world. — Raghavendra S (@ragh_twt) December 4, 2019 Painful to watch 🥺 — Ravish Bharti (@ravishbharti) December 4, 2019 Man-made structure always barrier for wild animals. — Prafulla Bhamburkar (@Prafull68343172) December 4, 2019 There is no information as to how elephant got their in the first place. But maybe with a little human assistance it could have gotten out without much struggle. This should serve to be an example enough for people to know that animals do not adhere to the human ‘rules’. The people were probably lucky that the elephant did not break the iron gate down, because elephants are known to do so when they find their way blocked by human ‘develoment’."]


Elephant----SP.COMMON
