
['Arachnofear: This newly-discovered species of spider can rot human flesh with just one bite\nNew species of spider can rot human flesh with just one bite (Source: CEN) | Photo Credit: Twitter Key Highlights The venom of the spider is powerful enough to destroy human tissue before causing lesions of up to 40 centimetres. The spider was named \'Laxosceles Tencochtitlan\' and was confirmed to be a native of the valley of Mexico region. Spiders are certainly not the most aesthetically pleasing and loved creatures on earth. A single bite from some species of the arachnid can be lethal to small animals and also humans. They are perhaps a classic example of insectivorous predators. Over the years, studies and tests by experts have proved that only three species of the arachnid are dangerous to humans - The Brown Recuse Spider, The Black Widow Spider and The Hobo Spider. But recently, scientists stumbled upon a species of spider in Mexico that probably has the nastiest bite in the whole arachnid kingdom. Scientists from the Biology Institute at the National Autonomous University of Mexico made the find and said a single bite from the spider can cause the human skin to rot. The discovery of the species was credited to biologist Alejandro Valdez-Mondragon and his students Claudia Navarro, Karen Solis, Marya Cortez, and Mayra Cortez y Alma Juarez, said reports. The spider was named \'Laxosceles Tencochtitlan\' and was confirmed to be a native of the valley of Mexico region. "As it is very similar to the Loxosceles mystical we thought that it had been introduced to this region by the shipping of ornamental plants, but when doing molecular biology studies of both species, we realised that they are completely different," Alejandro Valdez-Mondragaon told local media. The venom of the spider is powerful enough to destroy human tissue before causing lesions of up to 40 centimetres. As the healing process takes several months, victims may end up with a permanent scar. Alejandro said the spiders like being indoors and were seen to be adjusting well to changes in temperature, humidity, and food. "We provide them with the temperature, humidity, and food to establish themselves in our homes, which puts us at risk of having an accident with them, although they also perform an important ecological function when feeding on insects," said Alejandro.']


spider----SP.COMMON

spider----SP.COMMON

Laxosceles Tencochtitlan----SP.SPECIFIC

biologist----OFF.DESIG

Alejandro Valdez-Mondragon----SUS.NAME

Claudia Navarro----SUS.NAME

Karen Solis----SUS.NAME

Marya Cortez----SUS.NAME

Mayra Cortez----SUS.NAME

Alma Juarez----SUS.NAME

Laxosceles Tencochtitlan----SP.SPECIFIC
