
["a trip to the worlds largest rain-forest\nNow it was time for trying our luck with fishing. It's in my bucket-list to go for fishing and camping someday in some countryside and then cooking a caught fresh fish over a camp fire, but i got a chance to get acquainted to something similar in a rain-forest and that too fishing for piranha! The guide took our boat to piranha infested waters and then there were we ready to catch a piranha with traditional fishing technique, a stick with string tied to it along with a hooked bait. We took raw chicken meat for bait, but they say any meat will do as piranha are not picky eaters. It happened many time that we attached the meat, lowered the reel into the water, felt nibbles and jerked out the hook out of water to find if there was a fish, and yes! there was a fish but it ate all the meat!! There is a pretty simple trick to attract piranhas, just slam the boat paddle or fishing stick in the water before lowering the reel into the water, they get attracted to movements in water. After feeding piranhas with my bait many times, finally the hook came out of water with one. It was a first time fishing experience for me, and was very happy to catch a fish after waiting for a long time with the fishing rod. You can take back the fish for your lunch/dinner to the lodge, but in case you have bad luck with fishing, there is always yummy chicken waiting for you in the lodge. We left the fishing point to observe the sunset. Moving slowly in the boat, being surrounded by river water, watching the sky growing reddish and dull every other moment with the sun going down, birds returning to their nest, and listening to the sounds of nature is a joy in itself . While returning it was pitch dark, and there was just noise of jungle, river water and the raspy voice of boat motor. Our guide used torch light to signal the other boats in the river and to locate the way to the island lodge through the mangroves. It was dead dark all around unless we reached the lodge."]


meat----ITEM
