
["Shiv Sena MP’s vehicle runs over deer at Mumbai's Sanjay Gandhi National Park, driver booked\nMUMBAI: The driver of Shiv Sena MP Rajendra Gavit has been booked by forest officials for running over a spotted deer at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) last week. The SUV, which was being driven by the accused, S George, has been seized.The deer was hit near SGNP’s Borivli-end gate in the evening last Wednesday. The vehicle was being driven above SGNP’s prescribed speed limit. “We have questioned the driver (George) of Gavit, and an FIR has been lodged by an officer of rank assistant conservator of forest under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 for rash and negligent driving. The SUV didn’t have any other occupants at the time,” said chief conservator of forest and director of SGNP Anwar Ahmed. “All vehicles that enter SGNP must drive under the legal speed limit of 20kmph. This is done mainly to safeguard wild animals in the forest.”Forest officials say that in the past one and a half years, eight monkeys were killed in road accidents inside the national park. “We have prominently put up notices about the 20kmph speed restriction on roads inside SGNP. Citizens must understand why this rule is important. Had the SUV being driven by the accused, George, been under the speed limit, the deer could be safe. We are conducting an inquiry in the case now,” said Ahmed.Honorary wildlife warden and animal activist Sunish Subramanian said, “Often car drivers and motorcyclists do not observe the speed limit at SGNP. They drive at higher speeds, without thinking about animals like monkeys and deer, which often cross the inner roads. Perhaps forest guards should patrol more to curb rash driving at SGNP.”Nature lovers have also urged the forest department to install CCTV cameras inside the national park to make motorists follow rules."]


Shiv Sena----SUS.LOC

vehicle----TRANSPORT_MODE

deer----SP.COMMON

Sanjay Gandhi National Park----LOC.EXACT

Rajendra Gavit----SUS.NAME

deer----SP.COMMON

Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP)----LOC.EXACT

SUV----TRANSPORT_MODE

S George----SUS.NAME

seized----CRIME.CAT

deer----SP.COMMON

evening----TIME

last Wednesday----DATE

Gavit----SUS.LOC

George----SUS.NAME
