
["As Fire Continues To Rage In Odisha's Similipal National Park Wild Animals Enter Human Habitation\nAs wildfire continues to devour the Similipal National Park in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha, many wild animals have reportedly been heading towards human habitation in search of food, water and shelter. As per reports, some deer sneaked into Nihangandi village under Thakurmunda forest range after they were chased by street dogs. While all the deer from the herd managed to run back to the Similipal forest, one of them entered into a house to save its life. Subsequently, the villagers informed the Forest officials following which the animal was rescued from the village. Few days back, an injured bear had barged into Purunapani village under Karanjia forest division of the district triggering panic among the locals. However, the bear died due to alleged lack of treatment. The locals said the bear might have received the fatal injuries by a hunter’s arrow or while hunting for food. Similarly on Friday, a bear entered into Gaudibahali village and attacked two residents. The locals have been alleging that due to the fire in the forest, the animals are heading towards the village and demanded permanent solution for the menace. It may be noted, the fire in Similipal National Park has been raging since the last few days damaging the flora and fauna of the jungle. It is being alleged that the forest fire is set by poachers to hunt wild animals and collect mahua flowers. Earlier on Tuesday, the officials of Similipal Tiger Reserve (STR) arrested five persons while they were allegedly trying to set fire to the forest to hunt wild animal in Nawana Wildlife Range. The STR authorities also seized six axes, two bows, arrows, and matchboxes from their possession."]


Similipal National Park----LOC.EXACT

Wild Animals----SP.COMMON

Similipal National Park----LOC.EXACT

Mayurbhanj----LOC.DISTRICT

Odisha----LOC.STATE

wild animals----SP.COMMON

deer----SP.COMMON

Nihangandi village----LOC.EXACT

Similipal Tiger Reserve (STR)----AUTH.SEIZE

five----SUS.NUMBER

STR authorities----AUTH.SEIZE

six----QTY

axes----ITEM

two----QTY

bows----ITEM

arrows----ITEM

matchboxes----ITEM
