
['Shocking Video: A giant snake wrapped around a little girl’s neck, people were shocked to see\nsnakes (Snakes) should never be played with, because they have no confidence when they will bite you. Since there are these dangerous creatures, who are afraid of humans and like to stay away from them, but if someone bothers them, then they do not even leave them. Although not all snakes are poisonous and dangerous, but by looking at most people, they are able to identify which snake is dangerous and which is not. By the way, you will be surprised to know that people in foreign countries also keep snakes. Yes, it is surprising, but it is true. You will get to see many such videos on social media, in which even small children are seen having fun with their pet snakes. nowadays one such video viral ,Viral Video) is happening, which people are surprised to see. Actually, in this video, a girl is seen wrapping a giant snake around her neck. In the video you can see that the little girl is posing standing and she is holding the tail of a giant snake in her hand, which is wrapped around her neck. At first people got confused and mistook the snake as the peak of the child, but when looked carefully, it was a giant snake. The surprising thing was that the girl is not afraid at all that she has wrapped a snake around her neck and the snake does not react at all, rather it is comfortably wrapped around the girl’s neck and below the floor. But lightly trying to move forward. Where people usually scream even after seeing a small snake, while the girl has caught such a big snake. It is truly a mind-blowing sight. Watch Video: This video has been shared on the social media platform Instagram with the name snakemasterexotics, which has been viewed 10 million i.e. 10 million times so far, while more than 54 thousand people have also liked the video and various types of videos. Feedbacks have also been given. One user has written, ‘I thought it was her hair’, while another user could not believe that the girl was holding the snake. He has commented and asked ‘Is this true’.']


snake----SP.COMMON

tail----ITEM
