
['Why the kangaroos in West Bengal are a bad news for the Indian forests\nOne of the smuggled kangaroo that was found in the forests of Jalpaiguri in West Bengal, along with two others in an emaciated condition. The fourth one, a joey, is dead. Photo : ANI When the forest officials were on their regular patrol in West Bengal ’s Jalpaiguri district last week, they were prepared for sightings of Asian elephants, pygmy hogs, red pandas, or even a Royal Bengal Tiger or a one-horned rhino, perhaps. What they were not expecting were kangaroos! You read that right. Last week, on April 1 and 2, forest officials rescued three injured kangaroos from forests in Jalpaiguri and found the carcass of the fourth one. While three alive and one dead might be a shock, finding kangaroos in the region hasn’t been a new phenomenon. According to a senior official in the West Bengal Forest Department , one kangaroo was found just last month in a goods vehicle in the forests of the neighbouring Alipurduar district. “We have seized all kinds of exotic and non-native species from chimpanzees, hyacinth macaws, silvery marmosets, capuchin monkeys, Aldabra giant tortoises — some packed and sealed in cartons as if they were goods being transported.” All these point towards an elaborate smuggling racket, because one thing is for sure: the kangaroos native to Australia and New Guinea, or the capuchin monkeys native to South America, did not hop or swing their way into the forests of West Bengal. Got this on WhatsApp. It looks like fled away from Zoo...anyone know the reality@IndiAves @ParveenKaswan t.co/4WWWYwPVVQ — ANI (@ANI) Apr 2, 2022 “We have been working along with other enforcement agencies including the CBI on unearthing the smuggling rackets,” says Vinod Kumar Yadav, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF), Wildlife and Chief Wildlife Warden of West Bengal, speaking to Times Now Digital. Last month, two persons from Hyderabad were arrested for allegedly being involved in kangaroo trafficking last month. Kangaroos are non-native or exotic species to India and are never meant to survive here. For starters, it is the weather. The marsupials are suited to the dry, arid and hot climate of Australia, a complete contrast to the humid summers and cool winters of eastern India. Further, they are herd animals and rarely survive in isolation — the reason why kangaroos kept dying of myopathy in Alipore zoo. Chronic myopathy is a condition resulting in muscle degeneration, ultimately affecting the heart and lungs and leading to the painful death of the kangaroos. Royal Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Australia, calls this “capture myopathy”. It is common in kangaroos in captivity and “is a stress-induced and painful condition caused by excessive anaerobic muscular activity usually following exertion associated with capture or translocation.” The stress here refers to being exposed to loud and alien noises, besides being separated from the herd. If kangaroos were left in the wild, as was the case with the smuggled three kangaroos in question, which a forest official said was a result of a smuggling deal gone sour. “These kangaroos hadn’t been fed in days or even weeks. They were all skin and bones and acutely sick when we found them. The smuggler perhaps didn’t have the heart to kill them after the deal went bad, but leaving them in the forests was a worse fate for them,” the official who does not wish to be named says. The animals — all sub-adults — have been sent to Bengal Safari Park for treatment. The dead kangaroo, a baby, or joey, has been sent for post-mortem. Moreover, kangaroos or any other smuggled exotic species could carry diseases that the native fauna might not have been exposed to or have developed the defence mechanism for. Consequently, this creates additional problems for the wildlife in India that are already crammed into the country’s degraded forests and perpetually locked in a conflict with humans for space and resources. Some exotic species turn invasive, like the alligator gar, which was found in Kerala’s ponds after the 2018 floods. The scientists speculate that they could have possibly escaped from being someone’s ornamental pet or from an aquaculture facility. Native to North America ’s freshwater lakes, alligator gars are predatory fish that started invading Kerala’s aquatic bodies and the threat loomed large destabilising the native ecosystems. Kangaroos, if they manage to survive and thrive in India, pose a similar threat. However, their survival here is an “if” and a big IF at that.']


kangaroo----SP.COMMON

regular patrol----DETECTION_METHOD

kangaroo----SP.COMMON

joey----SP.COMMON
