
["Madhya Pradesh: Panna's radio-collared tiger 'Heera' killed, de-skinned in Satna\nBHOPAL: In a major setback to Madhya Pradesh , a male radio-collared tiger on dispersal from Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) got killed in Satna district.It was one among the two frequently spotted tiger siblings in PTR’s Akola range and popular among tourists as ‘Heera and Panna’.Decomposed, de-skinned carcass of Heera was found in the Singhpur range – around 70 km away from the Satna district headquarters on Sunday night. The area where the carcass was found is close to PTR in the Vindhya landscape, where the tigers are known to disperse.Senior forest officials had reached the spot after receiving the information. While officials refused to comment, sources informed that it must have died due to electric farm fencing and then deskinned.Heera – coded as P234-21 – and Panna had moved outside PTR on July 24. It was among the three tigers radio-collared for satellite-based mapping of landscape and dispersals by the state forest department and WII-Dehradun. The last signal received from its collar was on October 13, said an officer.Officials have recovered its radio collar at a distance from the spot where its carcass was found. This tiger was around 22-months-old. PTR is a home to more than 70 tigers which includes 50 above the age of one year and around 22 cubs.Earlier in 2019, a tiger was electrocuted by a live wire trap, probably set for game meat, in Satna district. The carcass was found in the Majhgawan forest area. Poachers had laid the trap near a canal in Dudhmunia forest, close to Ranipur Wildlife sanctuary of Uttar Pradesh, knowing that animals would come there to drink water. The tiger’s body parts — including paws, claws, whiskers and hide — were intact.More animals were killed by poachers through electrocution in the Satpura-Maikal landscape of central India — the world’s largest natural habitat of tigers, located between Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra — in the hope of making cash rain from the skies through black magic.Live wire traps along game trails have emerged as one of the most potent threats to tigers in the state.Experts say there has been an increase in the number of tigers dying due to electrocution. While a lot of these electric snares are laid to kill wild herbivores for meat, there are cases of targeted poaching of tigers this way. The recent trend of occult practices and superstitions driving such killings is really worrisome, they say.Experts also say dispersal towards Satna is probably due to the high density of big cats in Panna. Tigers are moving out to find new territories, especially towards Majhgawan forests.In 2018, Madhya Pradesh lost 23 tigers, including seven females, with officials clueless on the reason behind 17 of these deaths. The NTCA reports say only one of them was killed by infighting and five died of natural causes. Most of these tigers were killed outside protected areas, making the growing tiger population and dispersal a major cause of concern for wildlife protectors.The tiger death toll in 2017 was 26 (again, seven females), five of which were due to poaching. Seven of them were cubs. Reasons for the death have ranged from electrocution, poisoning, infighting, conflict with humans and rail accidents. Experts say most of the tiger populations in well-established tiger reserves have reached carrying capacity, posing a challenge of dispersals and conflicts. Some tigers got killed in territorial fights or crossing over 200km from their place of birth"]


radio-collared tiger----SP.SPECIFIC

Heera----SUS.NAME

killed----CRIME.CAT

Satna----LOC.DISTRICT

radio-collared tiger----SP.SPECIFIC

Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR)----ROUTE.SRC

killed----CRIME.CAT

Satna district.It----LOC.DISTRICT

carcass----ITEM

Heera was found----SP.COMMON

Singhpur range----LOC.EXACT

Sunday----DATE

night----TIME

paws----ITEM

claws----ITEM

whiskers----ITEM

hide----ITEM

poachers----SUS.AFFIL

electrocution----CRIME.CAT

electrocution----CRIME.CAT
