
['Five chimpanzees rescued by cops in Assam, 2 arrested\nGUWAHATI: Police rescued five chimpanzees in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district, which were coming from Manipur, on Tuesday night. They are believed to have been smuggled into the country.A team of veterinarians from the Assam State Zoo, Guwahati, have reached Karbi Anglong. The veterinarians are waiting for the CJM court’s nod to bring the species to the state zoo here.A case has been registered under Wildlife Act 1972 at the CJM court, Diphu, for smuggling. Sub-divisional police officer, Bokajan, John Das, told TOI that while performing naka checking at Dillai Tiniali, a vehicle bearing registration no. MN-01-AG-5829 (Maruti Ecco Van) was intercepted and the chimpanzees were found. “The vehicle was coming from the Dimapur side towards Guwahati. The police team searched the vehicle and rescued the chimpanzees and apprehended two persons,” said Das.The arrested duo, Hobibur Rahman and Zanab Khan, are both residents of Sangaiyumpham village in Thoubal district of Manipur. Police have seized the vehicle. The two arrested persons, the chimpanzees and the vehicle have been handed over to the forest department for further action.An interrogating official said Rahman and Khan were given the task of ferrying the consignment till Guwahati only. “They have not yet revealed much about the source. Perhaps, the consignment was about to be handed over to some other party in Guwahati, en route to some other destination,” he said.This is the third major smuggling incident of exotic wildlife through Assam since last year, forest officials said. Forest department sources said trade in exotic species through Assam is on the rise. Early this month, two kangaroos were rescued in Siliguri, which were also carried through Guwahati. Last year, a huge consignment of smuggled exotic wildlife, including a baby kangaroo, a pair of Capuchin monkeys, six hyacinth macaws and three Aldabra tortoises, were seized by the forest department from a truck in Cachar district. The consignment was coming from Mizoram.The source said since wildlife are being smuggled through the frontier states of Mizoram and Manipur, there is ample reason to believe they came through neighbouring Myanmar. “Kangaroos are endemic to Australia. Mizoram or Manipur are just the transit routes. Assam is not the destination either. The exotic wildlife is being smuggled somewhere outside the northeast, perhaps for keeping them as pet animals or in some secret zoos,” the source said. It added, “The difficulty in cracking down on the nexus is that the smuggling is being done through drivers of hired vehicles. They are not the kingpins,” the source added.']


Five----QTY

chimpanzees----SP.COMMON

rescued----CRIME.CAT

cops----AUTH.SEIZE

Assam----LOC.STATE

2----SUS.NUMBER

arrested----CRIME.CAT

Police----AUTH.SEIZE

rescued----CRIME.CAT

five----QTY

chimpanzees----SP.COMMON

Assam----LOC.STATE

Karbi Anglong district----LOC.DISTRICT

Manipur----ROUTE.SRC

Tuesday----DATE

night----TIME

smuggled----CRIME.CAT

case has been registered under Wildlife Act 1972 at the CJM court, Diphu----OUTCOME

vehicle----TRANSPORT_MODE

vehicle----TRANSPORT_MODE

two----SUS.NUMBER

Hobibur Rahman----SUS.NAME

Zanab Khan----SUS.NAME

Sangaiyumpham village----SUS.LOC

seized----OUTCOME

vehicle----ITEM

two----SUS.NUMBER

arrested----OUTCOME

handed over to the----OUTCOME

Guwahati----ROUTE.DEST
