
['Viral video: Man uses frying pan to defend himself against aggressive crocodile; sends it back into the wild\nFrying pan on croc KEY HIGHLIGHTS Kai Hansen was captured on camera hitting the angry crocodile on the head with the kitchenware. In the video shared online by Airborne Solutions Helicopter Tours, the aggressive reptile can be seen moving across the grass with its jaw open. Just as it tries to bite Hansen, he hits its snout with the frying pan.  Reports said Hansen landed some solid hits on the reptile just when it was about to snap its jaws at him.  People in remote areas of Australia often have to deal with unexpected animal encounters in their homes and outdoors. That\'s because the Land Down Under has the most diverse collections of mammals and reptiles in the world, with more than 80% of plants, mammals, reptiles, and frogs that are unique and found nowhere else in the world. Therefore, it is very routine for a family living in the outbacks to encounter kangaroos on their path or deal with large reptiles in their backyard. Such families protect themselves from invasion with specialised weapons and tools. But sometimes, unexpected incidents must be tackled with whatever is close to hand. When a pub owner from Northern Territory came face-to-face with a giant crocodile , he used a frying pan as a weapon to fend off the reptile. Kai Hansen was captured on camera hitting the angry crocodile on the head with the kitchenware. In the video shared online by Airborne Solutions Helicopter Tours, the aggressive reptile can be seen moving across the grass with its jaw open. Just as it tries to bite Hansen, he hits its snout with the frying pan. Watch clip: Rattled by the attack, the croc turns back and crawls away from the area. Reports said Hansen landed some solid hits on the reptile just when it was about to snap its jaws at him. "Goat Island isn’t your average pub and King Kai isn’t your average publican! You just never know what he’ll serve up next, "Airborne Solutions Helicopter Tours captioned the video on Facebook. The video has now collected over 9 lakh views and close to 4,000 reactions.']


frying pan----CONCEALMENT_METHOD

crocodile----SP.COMMON

croc----SP.COMMON

Kai Hansen----SUS.NAME

crocodile----SP.COMMON

kitchenware. In the video shared online by Airborne Solutions Helicopter Tours----CONCEALMENT_METHOD
