
['Drunken Man allegedly rapes stray dog in Chennai: Locals file a complaint\nAnimal cruelty hit a immoral new low in Chennai after it was alleged that a drunk man had raped a Stray dog. Under sections 377 and 429 of the Indian Penal Code, raping an animal is a punishable offence. Chennai: Animal brutality hit a shameful new low in Chennai Nandanam after it was alleged that a drunk person had raped a dog. Under sections 377 and 429 of the Indian Penal Code, raping an animal is a punishable offence. A similar case was filed by Almighty Animal Care Trust, Chennai, stating that a tea stall worker in Nandanam allegedly raped a dog in the neighborhood. Late night on Sunday, the residents of Nandanam caught a man with the dog and asked him to leave the area but as per residents, he didn’t leave the area. Sai Vignesh, who is president of Almighty Animal Care Trust, told News reporters that after giving a warning to the culprit, he lodged an FIR on Tuesday afternoon. Vignesh also gave video footage which was recorded by a nearby hospital to prove that the man was with the dog. However, the Video recording doesn’t show the act. The incident was brought to light by Vignesh saying that awareness should be raised among the citizens and they Must inform the concerned authority as soon as they sense any criminal deed against animal apathy. While talking to the a Famous News Reporter, Meenatchi Sundaram, a local resident of the Nandanam locality said that the Culprit was usually seen on several occasions, especially in late nights with the homeless stray dogs. Police inspector, Pugazhendi T, wasn’t fully convinced with the video evidence provided by Sai Vignesh. He further added that there is no substantial proof that would prove the allegations. However, the tea stall worker was allegedly under the influence of alcohol while petting the animal. The police official said that they would continue further more essential investigation.']


Drunken Man----SUS.AFFIL

rapes----CRIME.CAT

stray dog----SP.COMMON

Chennai----LOC.CITY

Stray dog----SP.SPECIFIC

night----TIME

Sunday----DATE

warning----DETECTION_METHOD
