
['Parakeet trading racket busted, birds rescued\nNagpur: In a joint raid, Kalmeshwar and Seminary Hills range forest officials rescued 60 birds including 22 rose-ringed parakeets , 30 love birds, and eight pigeons from Motibagh slums in the city.The action was initiated by forest staff under assistant conservator of forests (ACF) PD Palwe after a tip-off from People for Animals (PFA) supporters Swapnil Bodhane and Ashish Korde from Nagpur and Wardha.Officials have arrested main accused Sheikh Abid Nasir Khan (26), a resident of Ansar Nagar slums. He was produced in the court on Sunday. The officials demanded five-day forest custody remand (FCR) but the court granted two days’ custody. Two other accused managed to escape.The birds have been sheltered at Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) in Seminary Hills and will be released after court order. Rose-ringed parakeets are protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and trading them or keeping them as pets is a crime.According to PFA’s rescue in-charge Kaustubh Gawande, “The action is just a tip of the iceberg. A big racket capturing parakeets and selling them to a particular section of the society is active in the city. The birds and their chicks are captured from forest areas near the city and sold to this section. The birds seized from the accused on Sunday were captured from Dhapewada in Kalmeshwar range.”“For the past two months, we were keeping a watch on the movement of the accused and informed about the racket to forest officials who then deputed two teams simultaneously at Lakadganj and Motibagh. Shaikh is a habitual offender and was caught in 2017 and 2018 also. He was also convicted for a similar offence,” said Gawande.“Shaikh was nabbed from Lakadganj area by one team and another team of forest staff raided three houses in Motibagh slums near the railway line. Shaikh was linked to Motibagh from where 60 birds and over 40 empty cages were seized,” said ACF Palwe.Nagpur is a flourishing market for birds and these avians are clandestinely sold in weekly bazaars in Lakadganj, Mangalwari, and Cotton Market areas. A few years ago, frequent raids by forest department had curbed the trade but as the anti-poaching squad with the Nagpur circle has become defunct, there is a spurt in wildlife crime in the region.']


Parakeet----SP.COMMON

trading racket----SUS.AFFIL

birds----ITEM

rescued----CRIME.CAT

Nagpur----LOC.CITY

Kalmeshwar----AUTH.SEIZE

Seminary Hills range forest officials----AUTH.SEIZE

60----QTY

birds----ITEM

22----QTY

rose-ringed parakeets----SP.SPECIFIC

30----QTY

love birds----SP.SPECIFIC

eight----QTY

pigeons----SP.COMMON

Motibagh slums----LOC.EXACT

forest staff----AUTH.SEIZE

assistant conservator of forests (ACF----OFF.DESIG

PD Palwe----OFF.NAME

tip-off----DETECTION_METHOD

People for Animals (PFA)----AUTH.SEIZE

Swapnil Bodhane----OFF.NAME

Ashish Korde----OFF.NAME

Nagpur and Wardha.Officials----AUTH.SEIZE

arrested----CRIME.CAT

Sheikh Abid Nasir Khan----SUS.NAME

26----SUS.AGE

Ansar Nagar slums----SUS.LOC

five-day forest custody remand (FCR)----OUTCOME

birds----SP.COMMON

seized----CRIME.CAT

Sunday----DATE

Dhapewada in Kalmeshwar range----ROUTE.SRC
