
['Leopard spotted near in Daman for the first time; panic in the area\nRepresentative Image. Photo : iStock KEY HIGHLIGHTS Leopard suspected to have come from hilly forests of Valsad district in neighbouring Gujarat state It is still suspected to be in the airport area where it was last spotted on CCTV Authorities have set two traps to rescue it and release in forest Daman : A : A leopard was spotted in the Daman airport area in a first, on Wednesday spreading a panic in the region. District authorities have advised people to stay alert, not to venture out at night, and avoid the area until the leopard is caught. Authorities suspect that the big cat penetrated the union territory border from Valsad district in Gujarat , as they are not naturally found in the union territory. which are home to leopards. The hilly forests of Valsad, on the other hand, are known to be one of the homes of the big cats. The leopard was caught on CCTV camera entering the airport premises through barbed wires and is still at large. The authorities are monitoring the CCTV footage from the neighbourhood, however, they suspect that the leopard is still in the airport area. They have set up two cages to catch the wild cat. Daman authorities have issued an advisory asking citizens to protect small children, pets, domestic and animals. They have also been asked to avoid sleeping outdoors like in courtyards or low-raise roofs. The Indian leopard is protected under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. They were earlier found across most of the tropical areas of the world, however their numbers have been diminishing over the past few decades. They are listed as ‘vulnerable’ on the Red List of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) because of habitat loss, poaching, and fragmentation. They are poached for their skins and other body parts to be smuggled for illegal trading in the international market. A total of 12,000-14,000 leopards are estimated to be across the country according to a 2014 census by the Indian government.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Daman----LOC.EXACT

Leopard----SP.COMMON

leopard----SP.COMMON

Daman airport area----LOC.EXACT

Wednesday----DATE
