
['2 nilgais, 16 goats die after drinking poisoned water from Chanda pond\nCHANDRAPUR: Two nilgais and 16 goats were killed after consuming poisoned water from a dried up pond near Dongargaon in Talodhi range on Friday. Foresters have arrested three persons from Palagaon village for poisoning the water body and killing the animals . Combing operations will be taken up in the surrounding jungles to verify if there is any other death of wild animal after drinking poisoned water from the pond.“Poachers had poisoned the pond for bush-meat. Two nilgais and 16 goats were killed after drinking the poisoned water. The matter came to light after foresters got information that some people have brought meat to the village for sale. They rounded up the accused and investigation revealed poisoning of water in the pond,” said CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin while talking to TOI.As the foresters, led by in-charge RFO Mahesh Gaikwad reached the pond, they discovered the two carcasses of nilgai. One of them was cleaned of its skin. Apart from this, 16 goats too were found dead in the dried bed of the pond.The death of the goats irked the villagers and police too were summoned to the spot immediately. However, as the matter was related to poaching of wild animals, an offence was registered against the poachers by the forest department Pravin said the poachers who poisoned the water in pond have been identified as Nikesh Nannaware (37), Praneet Dhanvijay (23) and Anna Bankar (55), all residents of Palasgaon village. He, however, said that it is yet not clear when the trio poisoned the pond.He said the foresters will carry out combing operation in the forest surrounding the pond as per the standard operating procedure.']


2----QTY

nilgais----SP.SPECIFIC

16----QTY

goats----SP.COMMON

poisoned----CRIME.CAT

Two----QTY

nilgais----SP.SPECIFIC

16----QTY

goats----SP.COMMON

killed----CRIME.CAT

Dongargaon----LOC.EXACT

Friday----DATE

Foresters----AUTH.SEIZE

arrested----CRIME.CAT

three----SUS.NUMBER

Palagaon village----LOC.EXACT

bush-meat----ITEM

in-charge----OFF.DESIG

RFO----OFF.DESIG

Mahesh Gaikwad----OFF.NAME

Nikesh Nannaware----SUS.NAME

37----SUS.AGE

Praneet Dhanvijay----SUS.NAME

23----SUS.AGE

Anna Bankar----SUS.NAME

55----SUS.AGE

Palasgaon village----SUS.LOC
