
['WII to study changing habits of Asian Black Bear in Himachal Pradesh\nCHANDIGARH: Himachal Pradesh forest department has tied up with Dehradun based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to conduct a study on changing behaviour pattern of asian black bear in the winter season. The bear which usually hibernate in the winters have agile on the contrary. Many cases of their attack on human have been reported from various regions of the state.Nagesh Guleria, chief conservator of forests said, ``It is during summer and monsoon the Asian black bear used to come down from higher reaches in order to find food and come in conflict with the humans. Now they have begun doing so in the winter itself. We want to know the reason if it is happening due to climate change or biotic pressure or some other factor.’’ Another official blamed human interference responsible for change in behavior of the animal. He is of the view that construction of roads close to the forest has increased the human presence and interference in the forest and disturbed the peace which required them to go in hibernation. Then food scarcity was also the reason, that the bear had no option but sleep through to conserve energy. Now they get to gorge on food left by people in and around their areas. ``If winter is not very harsh then bear do not hibernate and go around searching for food in human habitation, ‘’ said Sathya Kumar, WII scientist, who has conducted research and based his conclusion on bear species in Kashmir. In Himachal Pradesh, asian black bear is found in areas like Sarahan in Shimla district , Rampur Bushahar, Bharmour, Pangi in Chamba, Sirmaur and Barot in Mandi district at the height of 5000-7000 ft.Experts explained that during hibernation many animals go to sleep throughout winter months in order to help them conserve their stored energy and survive for the long periods when food availability is scarce. Asian black bear is classified as vulnerable by International Union for Conservation of Nature because of threats to their survival emerging from rampant deforestation and hunting of their body parts.']


Asian Black Bear----SP.SPECIFIC

Himachal Pradesh----LOC.STATE

Himachal Pradesh forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

asian black bear----SP.SPECIFIC
