
['Chandigarh: Snake bites Daria boy in sleep, cobra, krait crawl inside AC, car\nCHANDIGARH: A Class-VII student was bitten by a snake while asleep at his house in Daria village in the wee hours of Sunday. The boy, Arshad Khan, 11, is under treatment at the Sector-32 Government Medical College and Hospital ( GMCH ), where doctors have stated his condition to be stable.His mother, Sahana Khan, said: "The family was in deep sleep when his shriek woke us up with an alarm. He was complaining of acute pain in the abdomen. Before we could understand anything, he started vomiting and we moved him to the nearest civil hospital in Manimajra. On the way, he fell unconscious and doctors detected poison in his body, suspecting it to have come from the bite of a venomous creature such as snake. Later, I found marks of snake bite on one of his hands."Doctors at the civil hospital referred the boy to GMCH-32. Arshad\'s mother said he was in intensive-care unit and but doctors had declared him out of danger. "Arshad is youngest of three siblings," she said. On Monday, before she returned to the village from the hospital, the family saw a 2-metre-long wriggler come out of the house and killed it with the help of neighboursThe reptile although seemed like a non-venomous Indian rat snake from the picture of it that was taken before it was killed. This year, snake bite has killed four people in and around Daria, so far. Sahana said: "Snakes from the surrounding forest area sneak into houses and bite people. The administration should clear these shrubs and wild grasses from residential areas at least so that such incidents do not reoccur."On July 12, an 8-year-old boy was bitten by a snake at Mauli Jagran village while asleep in his house. His family had found a 2-foot-long snake coiled around his neck. That boy was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh.']


Snake----SP.COMMON

bites----CRIME.CAT

Daria boy----LOC.EXACT

cobra----SP.COMMON

krait----SP.COMMON

snake----SP.COMMON

Daria village----LOC.EXACT

wee hours----TIME

Sunday----DATE

Arshad Khan----SUS.NAME

11----SUS.AGE

Arshad----SUS.NAME

snake----SP.COMMON

Mauli Jagran village----LOC.EXACT
