
['Three youngsters climb a tree to flee a pack of leopards in Srirangapatna\nMandya: Nature, a much abused old saw goes, has a way of balancing everything out. Three youngsters, who climbed onto a tree to flee two fully-grown leopards along with three cubs quick on their tail on Friday, attested to this age-old maxim. The trio – Darshan, Ravi and Prakash, residents of Karekkura village in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya – was strolling along the banks of River Cauvery when the leopards gave chase. Terrified, but with their wits still about them, the youngsters took to their heels. On climbing the trees, they managed to get to as high as possible but the leopards, however, stayed close to the trees, waiting for the trio to alight.However, the youngsters had carried their mobile phones, and made a distress call to their kin in the village. Responding to their pleas, scores of villages, armed with wooden logs and other weapons to scare the beasts. The villagers created a racket, which had the desired effect on the wild cats, and fled. Once they confirmed that the leopards had returned to the woods, the three youngsters climbed down from the trees.The incident has understandably set the villagers on edge. The leopards are reportedly prowling in a hillock that is not too far from the Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary. The residents of Karekkura village are now living in fear of further attacks from the wild cats.The residents pointed out that, a cow was killed and devoured partially by a leopard about a month ago. Despite a formal complaint being lodged with the forest department, the leopards continue to roam free around their village. “We are really scared to see a pack of leopards roaming so close to our village. What if the leopards succeed in attacking us the next time?” one of the villagers asked.A forest department official said that their attempts to trap the leopard had not yielded the desired result. “We are concerned about the presence of a pack of leopards. If it is true that five leopards strayed into the village, we will take all measures to capture them,” said the official.']


Three----SUS.NUMBER

leopards----SP.COMMON

Srirangapatna----LOC.DISTRICT

Three----SUS.NUMBER

leopards----SP.COMMON

Friday----DATE

Darshan----SUS.NAME

Ravi----SUS.NAME

Prakash----SUS.NAME

Karekkura village----SUS.LOC

wooden logs----ITEM
