
['Firemen hack at trees as swarms of caterpillars spark panic in Navi Mumbai\nFumigation may have driven insects from mangroves to human localities NAVI MUMBAI: On Thursday afternoon, New Seawoods in Sector 50 of the satellite township witnessed a cloudburst-not from the lingering monsoon but of insects.A clueless fire brigade reacted to public calls for action by chopping away at the trees from which thousands of Hyblaea puera, a moth species, were dropping down in their first, caterpillar stage of life.The knee-jerk reaction by the fire brigade team from Nerul, which acted in conjunction with the gardens department of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), angered environmentalists.Found in the mangroves around the area and on teak growth elsewhere, the insects had suddenly erupted in their thousands on trees along the periphery of the road. They filled the air as they dropped to the ground to commence the next, pupal stage of their life.People said the caterpillars stuck to the bodies of passers-by and caused itching, a res ult of the insect\'s secretion.While there was panic among the residents, environmentalists and experts wanted to know whether that was a good enough reason for the fire brigade to have hacked a healthy tree. "These are harmless caterpillars of the mangrove moths, which lay eggs on the mangrove plants along the coast and when caterpillars emerge they often spread out due to winds and rain," entomologist Dr V Shubhalaxmi of iNaturewatch Foundation said."There was no reason to cut any tree branches or apply insecticide to kill these creatures. It is just their natural life cycle in progress at this time of the year."The caterpillars were even blown into some homes through open windows. Scores of them were glued to the walls of buildings near the road that leads to Seawoods railway station.Shubhalaxmi said the caterpillars after feeding on leaves transform into pupa, from which the moth would emerge. "The adults throng to lights as they get attracted to these," Shubhalaxmi said. "Residents near mangroves can keep their windows closed or keep the lights off. The caterpillars scatter all over the non-mangrove area by a silk strand that they secrete to come down on to the ground. Some even get carried away by the breeze."The fire department head, Shirish Aradwad, disputed any claim that entire trees were cut."Just a few tree branches were cut, but the tree is intact," Aradwad said. "The fire brigade has to go to the spot whenever citizens call the emergency numbers."Sandeep Bangia, a Seawoods resident and member of Navi Mumbai Environment Preservation Society, said it was unfortunate that some locals panicked."Large caterpillars are also seen near our building on a tree; but we never panic as we know these are harmless."Forest Officer Dadasaheb Kukade said the swarm of caterpillars had come from the mangroves in the area."The species is called Hyblaea puera, which is found in plenty in Avicennia marina , a species of mangrove tree," Kukade said. "They are non-poisonous, but the caterpillar hairs cause irritation and itching to human skin. This is for the first time that the swarm of caterpillars left the mangrove area and came on the roads and in residential area. It could be due to the change in climatic conditions as it is still raining even during the October heat season."Nerul ward officer Shashikant Tandel said that on Wednesday the NMMC health department had carried out malaria fumigation in the locality to arrest mosquito breeding. "It is possible that the caterpillars in the mangroves were affected by fumigation and they scattered all over the area and reached the street and residential area in the vicinity of the mangroves," Tandel said.Nitin Gupta (18), a resident of Nand Apartment in Sector 50 of Seawoods said several insects entered his home sa the windows were open."We are compelled to keep our windows closed," he said. "The sight of these ugly worms crawling on the window panes is indeed unbearable."(With inputs from Vijay Singh)']


Firemen----AUTH.SEIZE

caterpillars----SP.COMMON

Navi----LOC.DISTRICT

Thursday----DATE

afternoon----TIME

New Seawoods----SP.SPECIFIC

18----SUS.AGE

Nand Apartment in Sector 50 of Seawoods----SUS.LOC
