
['With snakes and rats in office, PMC employees run for cover\nTHE EMPLOYEES working with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), one of the oldest and richest civic bodies in the state, are these days terrorised by mice and snakes slithering under the tables and nibbling their way through the cupboards. The civic administration is fed up with the menace caused by rodents and they need to take some immediate steps to resolve the issue before it turns serious. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana cell of PMC in Savarkar Bhavan recently witnessed a snake in the office sending jitters among the civic employees who immediately took up the issue with senior officials. The cell on the ground floor of the building near Balgandharva Rang Mandir is on the banks of Mutha river. “The building is close to the river. So the snake managed to sneak in from the surrounding area. We tried to rescue the snake but it has hidden itself somewhere in the office premises. Thus, directions have been given to immediately shift the staff to the top floor of the same building,” said Executive Engineer Yuvraj Deshmukh. The civic staff, mainly women employees in PMAY, refused to sit in the office and had sought immediate shifting from the existing premises, he said. In another incident, at the Municipal secretary office on the first floor of the newly constructed extension of the civic main building, the rats have become a major concern. “We are facing problems with rats in offices and fear that they destroy office documents and computers. The civic health department has been informed about it,” said acting Municipal Secretary Shivaji Daundkar. He said rat traps have been placed in various spots in the office premises. “Nearly six rats have been trapped in the rat trap so far. There are many more in the office,” Daundkar said. The staff of the municipal secretary department also complained that the centralised AC in the office has been switched off due to fear of short circuits as the rats might have damaged cables but the civic electrical department denied doing so due to rats. “I am not aware of the rat problem in the municipal secretary’s office. The centralised air condition in the office has been switched off as there is very less staff working in the building,” said Chief Engineer Srinivas Kandul.']


snakes----SP.COMMON

rats----SP.COMMON
