
['Haryana: 11-month-old female leopard enters farmhouse in Panchkula village\nPANCHKULA: Panic gripped the villagers at Billa in the district headquarters town of Panchkula in Haryana on Wednesday when an 11-month-old female leopard entered a farmhouse in search of food. Even as the team of wildlife department managed to nab the leopard, no loss to life or injuries were reported.Inspector Naveen Kumar , station house officer (SHO) of Chandimandir police station, said that at around 11am, he received a call from the control room regarding the leopard that entered village Billa under his jurisdiction.He, along with the wildlife department officials, rushed to the spot. Cops got to know that the farmhouse where the leopard entered belonged to senior BJP leader Virender Bhau . The call was made to the cops by caretaker of the farmhouse. The caretaker told the police and wildlife officials that he heard cries of some wild animal near the wall of his farmhouse. When he went out to check, he was shocked to see the leopard stuck in the fencing of the farmhouse wall and crying in pain.The villagers who also got to know about the leopard in the village shut their doors and windows and locked themselves up till the entire operation was completed. Villagers said, “With leopard entering the village, we will not be able to step outside the house freely now.”SHO Naveen Kumar, wildlife experts and a team of doctors worked together and used a tranquilizer before rescuing the leopard from the residential area. “It took around two hours in the entire exercise,” he said.The wildlife officials said that the female leopard, aged around 11 months, will be released in the forest area of Morni after her medical checkup. Wildlife officials team present at the spot, said, “Wild animals like leopard come out of the forest area in search of sunlight, water and food in winters. Sometimes, young leopards forget their way and accidentally enter human area. The leopard is healthy and will be released in the forest area soon.”The village Billa is situated next to the forest area of Morni and leopards have been seen many a times by the villagers. Cases of attack on the cattle by leopards are also reported in the village and its surrounding area multiple times in the past.']


female leopard----SP.COMMON

Panchkula village----LOC.EXACT

Billa----LOC.EXACT

Haryana----LOC.DISTRICT

Wednesday----DATE

female leopard----SP.SPECIFIC

wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE

Naveen Kumar----OFF.NAME

station house officer (SHO)----OFF.DESIG

call----DETECTION_METHOD

leopard----SP.COMMON

wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE

Virender Bhau----SUS.NAME

caretaker of the farmhouse. The caretaker told the police and wildlife officials that he heard cries of some wild animal near the wall of his farmhouse. When he went out to check, he was shocked to see the leopard stuck in the fencing of the farmhouse wall and crying in pain.The villagers who also got to know about the leopard in the village shut their doors and windows and locked themselves up till the entire operation was completed. Villagers said, “With leopard entering the village, we will not be able to step outside the house freely now.”SHO Naveen Kumar, wildlife experts and a team of doctors worked together and used a tranquilizer before rescuing the leopard from the residential area. “It----DETECTION_METHOD
