
['Hedgehog rescued from four poachers\nRajkot: A hedgehog was rescued from the clutches of poachers in Madhupur village of Dhari taluka in Amreli. Forest department officials also arrested four persons for hunting wild animals and booked them under different sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.According to forest officials, the prime accused Prashant Jayani from Madhupur village had captured a hedgehog and kept it at his house. The probe revealed that Jayani planned to sell it to somebody. Other arrested besides Jayani include Gogan Dafda, Bhikha Parmar and Mahesh Dafda, who are accomplices in the offence. They are residents of village near Madhupur in Dhari.Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest Gir (east division) said, “Primary investigation revealed that their motive was trafficking. It’s under investigation who are the buyers and who others are involved in the crime.” According to Sharma, the hedgehog is used for black magic rituals by many communities. He said that there was also a superstition that sacrificing hedgehog brings good luck. Hedgehog falls under scheduled IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. Sources also said that the hedgehog was also hunted for medicinal purpose.']


Hedgehog----SP.COMMON

rescued----CRIME.CAT

four----SUS.NUMBER

A----QTY

hedgehog----SP.COMMON

Madhupur village----LOC.EXACT

Amreli----LOC.CITY

Forest department officials----AUTH.SEIZE

four----SUS.NUMBER

hunting wild animals----CRIME.CAT

Prashant Jayani----SUS.NAME

Madhupur village----SUS.LOC

a----QTY

hedgehog----SP.COMMON

Gogan Dafda----SUS.NAME

Bhikha Parmar----SUS.NAME

Mahesh Dafda----SUS.NAME

village near Madhupur in Dhari.Anshuman----SUS.LOC

It’s under investigation who are the buyers and who others are involved in the crime.” According to Sharma, the hedgehog is used for black magic rituals by many communities. He said that there was also a superstition that sacrificing hedgehog brings good luck. Hedgehog falls under scheduled IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. Sources also said that the hedgehog was also hunted for medicinal purpose.----OUTCOME
