
["Women visitor in Yellowstone Park dies as bison tosses her 10 feet in the air\nAn Ohio-based woman lost her life on Monday morning after a bison gored and tossed her 10-feet into the air. The tragic accident occurred at the Yellowstone National Park . A National Park Service news release stated that the 25-year-old woman approached the bison near a boardwalk north of Old Faithful.According to officials, the woman suffered multiple severe injuries, including a puncture wound from the large herbivores' horns, causing her death. Soon after the accident, the victim was transported to the Regional Medical Centre in Eastern Idaho but only to be declared dead. The identity of the deceased woman has not been made public yet.Officials said that the woman reached within 10 feet of the bovine, after which the animal attacked her. As per the regulations, visitors must always maintain a distance of 25 yards or more from bison, bighorn sheep, elk , and moose and a minimum of 100 yards from wolves and bears.Besides the woman, two more people had got within 25 feet of the bison. However, the release has not mentioned whether they were also attacked by the bison.As per the news release, the national park's animals are wild, and they can attack if approached. The news release stated that the most number of people suffering injuries in the national park is the victim of a bison attack. Bison attack more than any other animals in the park, the release added.Notably, Bison are North America's largest mammals. Apart from being big in size, they are also unpredictable. Above all, they can run at a speed of up to 35 mph, around three times faster than an average person. The official estimates that the national park is currently home to about 2,300 to 5,500 bison.This is the first reported bison attack incident in the year 2022."]


Yellowstone Park----LOC.EXACT

bison----SP.SPECIFIC

Ohio----SUS.LOC

woman----SUS.GENDER

Monday----DATE

morning----TIME

bison----SP.SPECIFIC

Yellowstone National Park----LOC.EXACT

25-year-old----SUS.AGE
