
['This 7-month old leopard was paralysed after an accident, now physiotherapy has helped her to walk again\n@WildlifeSOS | Photo Credit: Twitter A 7-month old cub, who was partially paralysed after an accident, has started to walk and run again after physiotherapy sessions by a team of veterinarians proved to be successful. The credit for the cub’s quick recovery goes to the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center (MLRC) whose members worked tirelessly for a period four weeks. Pari was traumatised after being hit by a vehicle near Igatpuri in Nashik earlier this month. She was found by locals in a very weak state and was shifted to the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center that is currently run by the NGO Wildlife SOS and Junnar forest division, reported DNA. When veterinarians at MLRC examined the dog, they found her spine had several injuries which led to limb paralysis. "The leopard was brought to us in a very critical state, she could not even stand or sit. We immediately got X-rays done and found that she had no fractures. But the scans revealed spinal injuries, which had caused complete limb paralysis," Dr Ajay Deshmukh, Senior Veterinarian at MLRC, told DNA. The doctors said the trauma was so severe, the leopard did not eat anything for the first two days and remained in a sleeping position. But when the team of doctors began physiotherapy on the cub, she responded positively to the treatment and eventually managed to stand up with the help of a makeshift wooden prosthetic. Doctors said their plan was to help activate blood supply to her limbs again so as to give them enough strength to walk. Just 20 days after the doctors started physiotherapy, Pari is now able to walk slowly. “It has been around 20 days since her treatment was initiated and now she has gained a lot of strength. Though limping, she has begun to walk without falling. However, she falls when she tries to run. She is under continuous observation," Dr Ajay Deshmukh, Senior Veterinarian told the newspaper.']


leopard----SP.COMMON

Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Center----AUTH.SEIZE
