
['Leopard in Gorai-Manori area is still on the loose, says activist\nActivist Godfrey Pimenta, in a letter, has demanded forest dept take measures to trap animal before it attacks humans A forest department team had earlier confirmed the pugmarks of a leopard. File pic While there have been frequent sightings of a leopard in the Gorai-Manori belt for over a month, with no man-animal conflict incident, activist Godfrey Pimenta, in a letter, has alleged that despite this, the forest department has done very little to trap the animal. On Sunday, Pimenta wrote to the Deputy Conservator of Forest, Thane (Territorial), Chief Conservator of Thane Forest Department, Chief Conservator of Forest Thane (wildlife), SGNP, Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, Chief Secretary of Maharashtra, and the Environment Secretary. “This is to inform you that despite sightings of a leopard in Gorai-Manori belt by locals, the Forest Department has done very little to trap the animal. Today, at around 8.20 am, the local Gorai resident Caroline D’Mello sighted the leopard leaping in front of her eyes,” states the letter. Pimenta has demanded that the Forest Department take proactive measures to trap the animal before it attacks humans. “The locals are willing to extend their full support and cooperation to the Forest Department in this regard,” the letter concluded. Spotted by villager One of the villagers who spotted the leopard said, “I was as usual going to work. And since we stay in field areas, we have to walk to the main concrete road. As I was on my way, I saw a leopard crossing. I called my relatives and we tried looking for him in the bushes, but did not find the animal. Later, we saw that there were pugmarks of the leopard in a field in the same area i.e Vairala Talav, Gorai. It’s very dangerous to even go out during the night now. Hope the authorities locate the leopard.” mid-day on March 17 had reported about the sighting of a leopard in the Gorai-Manori belt. The report stated that the forest department has been patrolling and creating awareness among the locals. Why trap the animal Kedar Gore, wildlife conservationist, The Corbett Foundation said, “Neither the said leopard has any history of human-wildlife conflict nor is it injured. So why should the forest department trap the animal unnecessarily? The residents of this area should explore the reasons that have possibly attracted this leopard. More awareness among the locals is needed to prevent any conflict situations.”']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Gorai-Manori area----LOC.EXACT

8.20 am----TIME

leopard----SP.COMMON

leopard----SP.COMMON
