
['Akhilesh warns of leopard in lion safari, seeks intervention\nKanpur: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav had attacked the state government over the recent deaths of blackbucks in the Etawah Lion Safari . On Friday morning he took to Twitter to state that there were reports of a leopard having entered the buffer zone of the safari to prey on deer.Akhilesh tweeted a photo of his father Mulayam Singh Yadav ’s safari tour and asked the government to adopt preventive measures to check the death of deer in the safari.Akhilesh had visited his Saifai residence on Wednesday evening and had met close acquaintances. On Thursday morning, he tweeted about the deaths of blackbucks in Etawah Lion Safari Park Uploading the photo of SP patron and father Mulayam Singh Yadav’s safari tour, he wrote on his Twitter account – “Taking the death of deers seriously due to leopard entering the buffer zone from the forest side in Etawah Safari Park, the government must plan and should immediately catch the leopard.”Samajwadi patron Mulayam Singh Yadav was in Etawah on April 12. He had visited his dream project Lion Safari and took stock of the work being done to start it.The SP patron had travelled in an open forest jeep to the enclosure and witnessed the lions, besides also interacted with the officers looking after the work of the safari and took stock of the progress of the project. He had said, “if there is a shortage of money, tell me, I will talk to the government.”Reacting to the visit of SP patron to Lion Safari, Akhilesh had then tweeted: “This is a big thought, a big result of a big work. Today the ravine of Chambal is populated by ‘lions’.”In Etawah Safari Park, on April 1, a leopard had reportedly entered the deer safari from the Fisher Forest area. After this, the death of three deers came to the fore.However, the safari administration described the death of the deer as a normal death and did not come on record regarding the presence of leopard in the safari. Later, as per the safari sources, a team of forest personnel was deployed to trap the leopard. A cage was also put in but till date the leopard has not been caught. The leopard had probably gained entry from the Fisher Forest area side.']


leopard----SP.COMMON

Samajwadi Party (SP) chief----AUTH.MISC
