
['Loco Pilots Of Goods Trains Saved 83 Lions From Death In Two Years\nRAJKOT: By state government’s own admission, close to 300 Asiatic lions died in two years in Gujarat . However, loco pilots of goods trains going to Port Pipavav have been saviours of ‘Gujarat’s pride’ in the same period.While there have been several instances of lions being run over by trains, especially in Amreli district, the loco pilots have saved lives of 83 lions by slowing down the trains, sometimes even for hours to let the wild cats pass peacefully. In fact, the loco pilots have saved these many lives at a time when the new Shetrunji Division, specially created for protection of lions, has remained mostly on paper due to acute shortage of staff including trackers and forest officials.The lives of lions in Savarkundla, Rajula and Liliya ranges in Amreli district are under constant threat due to the railway track connecting Port Pipavav. But the loco pilots slowed their trains spotting the lions, especially during the night and early morning hours.Moreover, the fencing near the tracks between Rajula and the port, which was damaged in Cyclone Tauktae last year, has still not been repaired.According to the Bhavnagar railway division, the alertness of these drivers saved the lives of eight lions in the first three months of 2022 alone. According to sources, Liliya, Pipavav, Savarkundla, Vajpadi, Baraftana, Uchhaiya, and Bherai are the areas where lions often cross or squat on the railway tracks. There are around 100 lions in Savarkundla, Liliya, Rajula and Jafrabad ranges of forest department.However, the posts of range forest officers (RFOs) in Liliya and Rajula have been vacant for more than six months, and there are no forest guards and foresters either. On an average, one goods train passes through this area every hour. According to sources, in 24 hours 25 to 30 trains pass through this route.Despite its own lackadaisical attitude in filling up the vacant posts, the forest department is quick to blame "overspeeding trains" whenever a lion dies on the railway tracks.Bhushan Pandya, a wildlife activist, said, "The posts in such sensitive areas can\'t be kept vacant for a long time. The forest department should adjust the staff from other divisions till new recruitment is done. The train movements should also be restricted during the night time."When contacted, Aaradhna Sahu, chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle), said, "There are vacancies in the department all over the state and the recruitment process is underway. We will try to fill up these positions as soon as possible."']


Loco Pilots----AUTH.SEIZE

Lions----SP.COMMON

Gujarat----LOC.STATE
