
['Rats Gnaw On Roots, Put Trees On City Stretch At Risk\nKOLKATA: An army of rats that has dug burrows under the pavements of Harish Mukherjee Road is believed to have weakened the roots of the giant deodar tree — 65ft tall — that collapsed on a passing car, injuring two passengers, last week. The rodents have gnawed into the roots of several other trees along the road that have been left wobbly, according to the civic authorities and locals.The sudden collapse of the tree without any wind or thunderstorm left witnesses stunned. “We later found that rats have drilled holes all around the trees, scooped out mud, and left the roots worn out. There are numerous such trees along Harish Mukherjee Road and we are worried about their health and the safety of passers-by,” said Kajari Banerjee, councillor, ward 73. Banerjee has taken up the issue with KMC officials, as well as the Agri-Horticulture Society, for a possible solution.“The uprooted deodar was more than 60 years old. During my adolescence, we had once decorated the Saraswati Puja pandal with leaves from the tree,” said octogenarian Rabi Chatterjee, a local resident.“You will find garbage dumped under almost all the big trees, which attracts rodents. Also, trimming of trees, which is mostly done on one side, disturbs the balance and the roots,” said Pradip Sarkar, a resident of Harish Mukherjee Road.Local traders pointed out that digging of the pavements for underground cable TV ducts has left tree roots chopped and led to the uprooting. “In the last nine months, there have been frequent digging of pavements till about 8ft-10ft deep, causing severe damage to these trees,” said local resident Putul Roy.“On some stretches, two cable ducts have been positioned side by side, and many of these have been laid close to the tree trunks,” said Debabrata Sarkar, a local trader.On May 31, Harish Mukherjee Road became Kolkata’s first road to be free of the cable mess. The KMC laid two flexi ducts on either pavement between Rabindra Sadan and the Kalighat fire station.Both flanks of the road have numerous gulmohar, simul, chhatim, kadam, sirish, cotton and Indian almond trees, aged between 50 and 80. During Amphan, several of them were uprooted, but were later replaced by neem and sal trees as instructed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee Rat colonies are not new to Kolkata. One such colony was earlier detected under SSKM Hospital and near the Fountain of Joy.The rat colony below Curzon Park played havoc with full-grown trees, many of which had premature deaths due to the rodents causing lethal damage to the ro-ot systems.']


Rats----SP.SPECIFIC

Agri-Horticulture Society----AUTH.MISC
