
['Viral video: Elephant attacks car in anger in the middle, see how destruction is created in the video\nAll kinds of videos go viral on social media (Viral videoIt happens. Sometimes videos are a little emotional and some are very funny. At the same time people are surprised to see some videos. In this episode, a video of an elephant comes to light, which makes people gasp. This video shows some angry elephants attacking a driver in the middle of the road. You have made many videos of elephant fun in the forest.Elephant videoBut such dangerous videos are rarely seen. Although elephants are social animals that can live and work comfortably with humans, in reality they are only wild animals, who like to stay in the forest and in such a situation someone bothers them there too, then he has to face them. Anger In the video you can see how an elephant herd is seen creating an orgy in anger. In fact, when some vehicles are parked on the road, a group of elephants come out of the jungle and see a lot of vehicles on the road, their mercury rises, then attack the standing in front and start sabotage. At this time, one person was seen running away from the car, some people including the driver were sitting inside the car. It is a matter of luck that the elephants do not fight so hard that the driver of the car gets a chance to escape in such a situation, otherwise the way the elephants got angry, their anger could not be tolerated by any human being. Watch the video: Completely unacceptable and barbaric behavior by some stupid spectators. Only elephants are polite, so they are being glorified by these unscrupulous minions, otherwise it would not take much for these polite monsters to show their power. Video-shared. Hasanur is believed to be from Karnataka pic.twitter.com/ZowMtfrVtJ – Supriya Sahu IAS (upsupriyasahuias) June 27, 2022 Read this too   The video is said to be from Hasanur in Karnataka. IAS Officer Supriya Sahu (IAS Supriya Sahu) Shared this video on his Twitter handle. The 30-second video has been viewed more than 22,000 times so far, with hundreds of people liking and reacting to it. Some people are very angry after watching this video.']


Elephant----SP.COMMON

IAS----OFF.DESIG

IAS Officer----OFF.DESIG

Supriya Sahu----OFF.NAME
