
['Goat Gives Birth To ‘Human-like’ Baby\nThe world is full of bizarre unexplainable things but this one will make you wonder what all is out there. There have been earlier incidents when animals have given birth to human-like offspring but this one will freak the bejesus out of you. In an unusual incident, a goat birthed a human-like offspring in Assam’s Cachar district. The people of the area are shocked at the newborn’s appearance. They rushed to the spot where the goat gave birth to see it for themselves. India Today According to reports, the kid was stillborn but its resemblance to a human offspring has left many people feeling astonished. The incident took place at Gangapur village which falls in Dholai Vidhan Sabha constituency in Assam. The reports add that the baby goat was born with human-like features – its eyes, nose and mouth looked like a man’s but its ears were like a goat’s. It was also born with two limbs. As soon as the people of the village heard the news of the human-like creature, they gathered together to get a god look at the animal’s dead body. When they saw the stillborn kid, they could not believe their eyes that something so bizarre could exist.  India Today Earlier this year, an Indonesian fisherman claimed to have caught a shark with what appeared to be a ‘human face’. The bizarre creature was found by Abdullah Nuren on February 21. The fishermen had caught a pregnant shark and when they cut her open, they found three pups inside. The fishermen said two looked like the mother, while one looked like a human. Images showed large human-like eyes as well as an expressive mouth on the dead baby shark that was smaller than a human hand. Undeterred by its bizarre appearance, Nuren had taken the dead unborn shark home. Nuren took the dead fetus home. According to him, his neighbors offered to buy the dead pup, but he declined their offers. “My home has been crowded with people who want to see the shark. Many people want to buy it, but I will preserve it instead. I think it will bring me good luck,” he was quoted as saying by ViralPress.  Twitter Have you ever seen an animal that resembled a human being? Let us know in the comments section. For more trending stories, click here.']


Goat----SP.COMMON

goat----SP.COMMON

Cachar----LOC.DISTRICT

Gangapur village----LOC.EXACT
