
['Rampant poaching under lens after tiger death\nKOLKATA: Reports on presence of deer skull and bones at Sunderbans’ Ajmalmari, where a tiger carcass was found with an iron snare around its waist a couple of days ago, have indicated rampant poaching activities in the area for a long time. The forest department, though, has denied the reports.According to a source, the deer bones and skulls recovered at compartment 1in Ajmalmari gives rise to speculations that deer — a protected animal — were perhaps killed in the area earlier too. “Probably, the deer got trapped in the snare. May be, the poachers were late in taking its body out. As a result, it started decomposing and the smell attracted the tiger to the spot, which got trapped in the snare,” said a villager.Some other villagers and experts are wondering if the iron snare — around 500-metre-long — was meant for tigers only, since the local fishermen rely mostly on snares made of nylon wires to poach deer.The department, however, has rubbished the reports of presence of deer bones. “We won’t say much, because a probe is on,” said Santhosha G R, divisional forest officer of South 24 Parganas forest division, commonly known as the buffer zone of the Sunderbans. According to him, no arrest has been made so far.Local sources, though, said the department has identified the culprits, two of them a husband-wife duo. But they are on the run. All are residents of Madhya Gurguria village.Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said they have got a list of names. “Arrests will be carried out in time. Meanwhile, the preliminary autopsy has suggested that there were no foreign bodies, like bullets,” he added.The South 24 Parganas forest division is home to at least 27 tigers, which were caught in camera traps in 2017. With reports suggesting that the tiger reserve area is reaching its carrying capacity, many bet big on the buffer forest since it has the potential to house the tigers coming out of the tiger reserve.But, reports had also sounded alarm over anthropogenic pressure and weak joint forest management. A total of 22 villages with a population of 1,03,768 are situated on the fringes of South 24 Parganas forest division alone. These remote villages have limited livelihood options, inadequate irrigation facility and over 60% of the villagers are unemployed. All these result in human pressure on the forests.Times ViewThis incident must be probed and the killers identified and brought to justice as soon as possible. This menace will grow unless the law-enforcing agencies act tough and nip the problem in the bud.']


deer----SP.COMMON

skull and bones----ITEM

Sunderbans’ Ajmalmari----LOC.EXACT

tiger----SP.COMMON

carcass----ITEM

a couple of days ago----DATE

compartment 1in Ajmalmari----LOC.EXACT

Santhosha G----OFF.NAME

divisional forest officer----OFF.DESIG
