
['Only in Australia: Tarantula hawk preys on massive huntsman spider\nReddit/space_monster | Photo Credit: Twitter Key Highlights Tarantula hawks may not be very big in size but they are known to prey on giant tarantulas The tarantula hawk\'s sting is rated as level four on the Schmidt Pain index. It is just behind the bullet ant on the pain chart Spotting a crocodile in your yard or a snake in your bathroom is not unusual in Australia. The land down under is home to some of the deadliest creatures in the world. Almost every week, pictures and videos of some incident involving an animal in the country go viral on social media. In today’s edition of bizarre animal news from Australia, a tarantula hawk was seen preying upon a huge huntsman spider inside a house in Sydney. The terrifying spectacle was caught on camera and shared on Reddit with the caption, "Got home from work to find this Tarantula Hawk wasp carting off a huntsman spider." Since being shared, it has been widely circulated on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. Take a look: Unsurprisingly, many social media users reacted in shock. However, some said such things are normal in Australia. “Best part about this post? We all knew it was Australia without reading the description,” wrote a user. One user quipped, “One of these days someone’s going to find King Kong sitting on his a** in the middle of Australia and they will also have the same response.” “Well I just looked up the Huntsman spider and it\'s safe to say I won\'t ever leave my house anymore,” wrote another. Tarantula hawks may not be very big in size but they are known to prey on giant tarantulas. They use their sting to paralyse their prey before dragging it to their nest. The tarantula hawk\'s sting is rated as level four on the Schmidt Pain index. It is just behind the bullet ant on the pain chart. Although the pain from the sting lasts for only three to five minutes, it is excruciating enough to disorient people. “There are some vivid descriptions of people getting stung by these things and their recommendation was to just lie down and start screaming, because few if any people could maintain verbal and physical coordination after getting stung by one of these things,” Biologist Ben Hutchins, of Texas Parks and Wildlife, told Wired.']


Tarantula hawk----SP.SPECIFIC

tarantula hawk----SP.SPECIFIC

huntsman spider----SP.SPECIFIC

Sydney----LOC.CITY

Reddit----DETECTION_METHOD

Tarantula Hawk----SP.SPECIFIC

huntsman spider----SP.SPECIFIC
