
['12 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Rats and Mice from Home\nIf you stumble upon rats and mice in your home, you know you will be in panic mode. If you see them, then it is a problem, and if you don’t then it is a bigger problem – you never know where they might be hiding in your house. Rats and mice infestation can make your life miserable. Furthermore, these creatures also carry a risk of infectious diseases. You don’t want that, right? So, it’s best to try something soon to get rid of these pests. There are many ways to get rid of these pests from your home, but there are some home remedies too that you can try – simple and effective. Home Remedies to Get Rid of Rats and Mice The presence of rats and mice can be understood by various signs. They often leave several droppings in the house. They even chew away on your boxes and clothes, or any edibles if left open. Therefore, it is crucial to identify these pests and drive them out. Read on to follow these few remedies that will teach you how to get rid of mice naturally. 1. Peppermint Oil Rats dislike the smell of peppermint oil. We find the smell of peppermint refreshing but rats don’t – so use peppermint oil to drive them away from your home. Place peppermint oil- dipped cotton balls in front of several small openings in your home to keep rats at bay. 2. Plaster of Paris and Cocoa Powder Plaster of Paris and cocoa powder also works to kill rats and mice. Mix 1 tablespoon of cocoa powder with plaster of Paris and sprinkle it around the standard trail for the rats and mice. As cocoa powder attracts these pests, they tend to eat this mixture and soon they feel dehydrated and suffocated. To save themselves, they rush out of homes and die. 3. Hot Pepper Flakes Hot pepper flakes not only make humans sneeze but also keep rats and mice away. Sprinkle hot pepper along the doorways and other corners of your house to get rid of vermins. 4. Onions Placing onions around small holes and openings while assuring that these bulbs are replaced every second day, can keeps rats away from your home. The pungent smell of onions will soon drive them away. 5. Garlic Bulb As rats dislike strong smell, you must make complete use of this attribute of rats to drive them away. Mixing chopped garlic with water and sprinkling it around your home or even spreading garlic cloves in the pathway of their regular trail can drive them away. 6. Potato Powder Using instant potato powder also works to drive rats and mice away. As you sprinkle this powder at home, rats and mice then go around, following the trail and feeding on this yummy treat. As the powder enters their body, those potato flakes then swell up within the intestine and kill them eventually. 7. Cloves Wrap cloves in muslin cloths and place near rat holes. The smell of cloves will be enough to get rid of them from your home without much effort. 8. Ammonia Spray Prepare an easy to use ammonia spray. Spray ammonia on small cotton balls and place them near rat holes, driveways, and other corner of your house. The smell of ammonia will make them feel suffocated and they will soon run away from your home in order to save their lives. 9. Bay Leaves The aroma of bay leaves attract rats and they tend to think it as their food. However, when try to feed upon it, they choke themselves, and eventually die. So, place some bay leaves around the corners of your house and kill these annoying pests. 10. Crevice Control Rats are relatively larger in size while mice can fit into crevices as small as an inch wide. Therefore, it is crucial to locate these small openings and seal them all. Leave no nook and cranny unsealed. Ascertaining that all crevices are blocked is a good way to prevent invasion. 11. Rattraps An age-old method of getting rid of rats is placing rattraps in the house. Set up a trail for them keeping the baits and lead these pests right outside the home. Rat traps and mouse traps are quite effective ways to get absolutely rid of these pests. 12. Clear the Clutter Pests, insects and bacteria are prone to be produced and are attracted to areas with dirt and dust. In storage areas or areas with a lot of luggage/boxes huddled up together, mice and rats are bound to sneak in and multiply steadily. Therefore, clear the clutter. Keep your house neat, clean and tidy, leaving no room for any kind of infestation. FAQs Often breeding in contaminated areas, rats and mice typically transmit salmonella and E. coli, which is why, you must action soon to kill them or drive them away from your home. Many people have different questions regarding pests. So, we have tried to answer a few – 1. Are Rats and Mice Scared of Dogs? Yes, of course! Rats and mice are scared of dogs and cats. A pet dog could keep the rat-problem in check. Dogs are fierce and can generally scare mice away. However, some dog breeds, for example, the hound breeds of dogs are hunter dogs and are known to feed on small animals like rats and mice. However, these pests can be poisonous and swallowing or allowing your pet-dog to feast on them is not recommended. 2. Do Rats Come Out in the Light or Do They Avoid Light? Rats are highly fond of dark corners, crevices, and storage areas that do not invite light. These nooks and crannies in your home, act as comfortable homes for these pests and give way for a heavy breeding ground. Therefore, it is recommended that you regularly dust, clean and take out garbage from you home to not let these pests hide away and breed. With these home remedies you can perform pest control in your house on your own. Try these tricks and watch these pests running away from your home. Also Read: How to Get Rid of Bed Bugs at Home Home Remedies to Treat Bee Stings Naturally Important Dog Care Tips to Keep Your Pet Happy and Safe']


Onions----ITEM

Cloves----ITEM

Bay Leaves----SP.SPECIFIC
