
['Leopard Enters Jaipur Locality, Drone Search On\nThe leopard pictured moving within the city of Jaipur, Rajasthan on Thursday, December 12 (Credits: IANS) A leopard entered a posh locality in Jaipur on Thursday afternoon, and a search for it was on with drones until evening. It triggered panic among the locals, while the police and forest department teams were seen searching for the animal. The police were informed immediately after locals spotted the animal on Takhteshahi road near Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg. Acting quickly, the police stopped traffic and sought a drone to trace the animal. However, traffic movement normalised after a few minutes. Eyewitnesses said that the leopard\'s movement was seen in four to five houses which are being monitored by the drone. A CCTV footage of a leopard was seen in a house at around 4.40 p.m. Forest officials said that the leopard must have entered the city on Wednesday night and hid himself somewhere during the day. Advertisement Arindam Tomar, wildlife officer, said, "The animal seems to be lost and hence must have entered the city. Our team is there trying to trace the animal." Speaking on the reasons for wild animals entering city areas quite frequently, he said, "This has been happening earlier too that wild animals enter urban locales being lost. Our team\'s operation will continue in the night and we are closely monitoring locations where the leopard might be." The forest officials said that the leopard must have come from the Jhalana forest area, which is quite near to this location. Two years ago as well, a leopard had entered this area, and it was later tranquilised and rescued by the forest officials.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Jaipur Locality----LOC.EXACT

Drone Search----DETECTION_METHOD

leopard----SP.COMMON

leopard----SP.COMMON

Jaipur----LOC.CITY

Thursday----DATE

afternoon----TIME

evening----TIME

police----AUTH.SEIZE

forest department teams----AUTH.SEIZE

Takhteshahi road near Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg----LOC.EXACT

4.40 p.m.----TIME

leopard----SP.COMMON

Wednesday----DATE

night----TIME
