
['A happier Diwali for animals, birds this time\nDiwali animals and birds veterinary hospitals animal rights’ activists Dr JC Khanna Bai Sakarbai Dinshaw Petit Hospital psychological and physical harm post-traumatic stress Dr JC Khanna examines a dog affected by firecrackers inhale toxic gases Dr JC Khanna treating a bird affected by a firecracker Vets record 50 per cent fall from last year in cases related to firecrackers.Mumbaikars seem to be growing increasingly sensitive towards the environment and celebratingmore responsibly as this year saw a remarkable 50 per cent drop in the number ofaffected by firecrackers from last year. Officials ofgive credit to awareness programmes run by the media andand the growing trend of eco-friendly celebration for the striking improvement.According tooffor Animals, Parel, “Fireworks can harm animals in many ways, affecting far more animals than just those who live in the vicinity of humans. The noise, light, sparks, flames and fumes can cause them. Dogs, especially the younger ones, can suffer fromdue to the intense fear and anxiety caused by prolonged and unpredictable noises. Their acute sense of hearing makes them more vulnerable to noise than humans. Severe stress responses have also been observed in cats, birds and other animals living in urban areas. They can also suffer from hearing loss, blindness, respiratory diseases, or poisoning if they ingest the toxic residue of crackers,” said Khanna.Furthermore, some animals also sustain first degree burns during Diwali. Birds are forced to fly longer distances in search of refuge and perforcein the air. This affects their respiratory system and they may fall to the ground out of exhaustion and dehydration. Dehydrated birds have to be treated with glucose water, antibiotics and multi vitamin syrups. The birds usually recover within a week.However, the data (see table) provided by Khanna indicate that things are looking up for non-human species during Diwali. “Owners should give clean drinking water to their pets and try to provide to them a safe and secure environment,” he added.Khanna’s data are supported by Chief Fire Officer P Rahangdale, who told Mirror that the percentage of fire accidents caused by crackers has also gone down this Diwali.']


dog----SP.COMMON
