
['Mountain Lion Wanders Into US High School\nA mountain lion was seen wandering in the most unexpected of places: a high school. What it was doing there is anybody\'s guess. The lion, said to be have been four to six months old, made its way into Pescadero High School in California, US, and ran around before a custodian managed to trap it inside a classroom, according to San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office. Twitter/@MagallonNews According to NBC News, the cub was discovered just before 8:30 a.m. local time on Wednesday as the custodial staff was preparing to open the school.  “There is currently a mountain lion that entered the La Honda-Pescadero Unified School District grounds," the sheriff’s office tweeted.  “The SMCSO can confirm at this time that ALL STUDENTS AND STAFF ARE SAFE at Pescadero High School,” they added.  Final Update  Update on the mountain lion: The mountain Lion has been safely removed from Pescadero High School by @CaliforniaDFW It is believed to be a male approximately 4-6 months old. It will be transported to Oakland Zoo for a health assessment pic.twitter.com/A3SDpUpXhD — San Mateo County S.O (@SMCSheriff) June 2, 2022 Later, the cub was removed in the afternoon and had to be tranquilised for capture and transport, the report said.  It was not known how the mountain lion entered the school in Pescadero. Earlier in March, a 226-kg bear seen moving about near a university in Tennessee, U.S., was finally captured and relocated by forest officials. The Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency were involved in evicting a massive bear from its \'home\' near Tusculum University, CNN reported. The bear was knocked unconscious before being taken to “a remote area of Cherokee National Forest.” The forest is near Great Smoky Mountains National Park, along the North Carolina state line. In a Facebook post, the agency said: "A 500-pound black bear living near Tusculum college in Greeneville had become habituated to human and unnatural foods and was relocated to a remote area of the Cherokee National Forest." “The bear had regular access to garbage, birdseed, and pet food and had been in the area for a few years. (It) ramped up its activity and property damage last year," they said. The bear was eventually located on one of the empty lots of a nearby residential neighbourhood, and subdued with a tranquiliser dart. The statement said that the bear had been relocated to a designated release site in Cherokee National Forest. For more trending stories, follow us on Telegram. ']


Mountain Lion----SP.SPECIFIC

mountain lion----SP.SPECIFIC

lion----SP.COMMON

Pescadero High School----LOC.EXACT

8:30 a.m. local----TIME

Wednesday----DATE

mountain lion----SP.COMMON

mountain Lion----SP.COMMON

Pescadero High School----LOC.EXACT
