
['Tiger on the prowl in Belagavi village; residents vigilant\nBELAGAVI: For the past two weeks, residents of Hemmadaga village in Khanapur taluk are moving around in groups holding either a stick or a sickle. They go to fields in groups and return home before sunset. They have, in fact, lost their peaceful life they enjoyed over the years. The reason—a tiger is on the prowl in their vicinity.According to local residents, the tiger, which strayed into the village from the nearby forests, had killed several domestic animals. The village is nearly 40 kilometres from Belagavi city.“We are now living in the fear of being attacked by the tiger any moment. A few days ago, our domestic animals, mostly cattle, went missing. Initially we thought they had lost their way from nearby places. But we were shocked to find the carcasses of the dead cattle. Soon we came to know that a tiger from the nearby forests had strayed into our village. Our fears multiplied when we found pug marks of the tiger in our village,” said Vijay Madar, former GP president and a resident of Hemmadaga village.The officials of forest department have also confirmed the presence of the tiger in the village after examining the pug marks.“Elderly people have been asked not to venture out of the house. We escort our children to and back from school. Women have already stopped going to field. Only men are working in the fields and they too return home early. We move in groups of four or five persons holding sticks and sickle to protect ourselves if we are attacked by the tiger,” said Suresh, another resident.“We have taken all possible measures to protect villagers from the tiger which is on prowl. Our staff have also seen the tiger crossing the road in the village. We have intensified our patrolling. A team of anti-poaching officials is ensuring the safety of villagers from the tiger,” said Shashidhar, assistant conservator of forests, Belagavi.They, however, denied that more than 30 cattle were killed by the tiger. “We have also arranged for distribution of pamphlets and beating of drums to alert villagers in case of tiger movement in the village. We have asked people not to venture out of the house after sunset and be cautious while moving in the village,” he said.“There are a few villages including Hemmadaga which are inside Bhimghad wild life sanctuary. Some times, wild animals including tiger stray into the villages. However, we are always on tenterhooks to ensure the safety of villagers. Luckily, no untoward incident happened so far in any of the villages,” he added.']


Tiger----SP.COMMON

Belagavi village----LOC.EXACT

Hemmadaga village----LOC.EXACT

patrolling----DETECTION_METHOD
