
['Cannibal tiger terrorises Kanha National Park; experts baffled\nThe patrolling squad of the Kanha National Park saw the tiger feeding on two sub-adults (Representative Image). | Photo Credit: Getty Images Bhopal: A tiger that hunts tigers has been frequenting the Kanha National Park. The tiger preyed on two sub-adults on Tuesday and is being suspected to have eaten a tigress on January 19. Following the incident, the Madhya Pradesh wildlife department decided to study cannibalism among tigers. The tiger is being suspected to have eaten two sub-adults and a tigress on January. The Madhya Pradesh wildlife department decided to take up a study of cannibalism among tigers in protected area after this incident. Also Read: Srinagar Ground Report: Despite disruption by Pakistani forces; Valley resumes to normalcy While talking to the Times of India, the Field Director of the Kanha National Park, L Krishnamurthy stated that it is natural for tigers to prey on tigers in an attempt to control population. The patrolling squad of the Kanha National Park saw the tiger feeding on two sub-adult tigers and identified him as the tiger who had killed a tigress the previous month. The remains of the two sub-adult cats were found in the Kanha National Park on Tuesday. It was stated that a patrolling squad came across the remains of the tigers at around 9.20 am in Kanhari while a tiger was feeding on them. The authorities added that it is strange for a tiger to hunt among the same species even after there are plenty of other animals to prey on. Though cannibalism among tigers was stated as being common, it is the conditions that the authorities wish to study. The authorities are hopeful on developing an understanding of the reason behind cannibalism. They are also looking forward to assessing the male-female ratio among the tigers. An expert added that the tiger did not hunt the other cats out of hunger, he did so to mark his territory.']


Cannibal tiger----SP.SPECIFIC

Kanha National Park----LOC.EXACT

Kanha National Park----LOC.EXACT

sub-adults----SP.COMMON

Tuesday----DATE

tigress----SP.COMMON

January 19----DATE

Madhya Pradesh wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE

Tuesday----DATE

9.20 am----TIME

Kanhari----LOC.EXACT
