
["Indian Forest Officials Spot Leopard Cubs Left Unattended in the Jungle; Guard Them Until Their Mother Arrives (VIDEO)\nThe leopard cubs. (Parveen Kaswan/Twitter) For humans and animals to coexist peacefully, it is best not to cross the thin line that divides our world. But given the current vulnerable state of Indian wildlife, officials find themselves in situations where they must intervene, if only to safeguard the animals. And the forest department's recent handling of an encounter with leopard cubs is a beautiful example. On Monday, Parveen Kaswan of the Indian Forest Service tweeted that his team had spotted leopard cubs in the jungle without their mother. The find was concerning because these cubs — estimated to be just 7 or 8 days old — were at the mercy of whatever predators lurked in the shadows of the woods. To ensure the cubs’ safety, the officials decided to keep a close eye on the babies while they waited and hoped for the mother’s return. They also created a backup plan to take in the cubs and care for them if the mother failed to appear within 24 hours. But to everybody's delight, the adult leopard did arrive and took her cubs to a safer spot. Advertisement The entire event was taped, and we must say, it was heartwarming to see the mother coming for her cubs. IFS Parveen Kaswan shared the video on Twitter, with several netizens expressing their appreciation for the team and their handling of the situation. The mother is seen looking directly into the camera towards the end of the video, and we fancy that she's thanking the officials for guarding her babies in her absence. Classified as ‘vulnerable’ on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, leopards continue to focus major threats like habitat loss and poaching. However, India’s leopard population seems to be on an upward trend, thanks to sustained conservation efforts and dedicated efforts like the one above. ** For weather, science, space, and COVID-19 updates on the go, download The Weather Channel App (on Android and iOS store). It's free!"]


Indian Forest Officials----AUTH.SEIZE

Leopard----SP.COMMON

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE
