
['Orcas Have Been Recorded Hunting And Killing Blue Whales\nFor the first time, orcas, also known as killer whales, have been observed hunting and killing the world’s largest animal, the blue whale. Although it’s the subject of a study which was announced last week, the attack was actually witnessed in March 2019, by researchers from Australia’s Cetacean Research Center (CETREC) and Project ORCA.  John Daw/Australian Wildlife Journeys Orcas are known for their ability to hunt in pods, or groups, and work together to kill prey. However, there has been no recorded case of them chasing killing blue whales until now. “This paper is the first to really confirm a blue whale kill and at the same time it provides firm confirmation that killer whales will even go after mature healthy blue whales,” Erich Hoyt, a research fellow at Whale and Dolphin Conservation, told The Guardian. The scientists were in boats, conducting annual whale and dolphin surveys, when they witnessed the first killing of a 72 foot-long blue whale. Chunks of blubber and skin, as well as most of its dorsal fin, had been bitten off, leaving “underlying bone exposed.” After about 20 minutes, observers noticed the whale slowed and started swimming in circles. It was bleeding and was growing weaker as killer whales continued to attack it relentlessly. The orcas teamed up to ram its flank and force it underwater. “While it was still alive, an adult female killer whale put its head inside the blue whale’s mouth and began feeding on its tongue,” the paper explained,  John Daw/Australian Wildlife Journeys When the whale finally started to sink, a sign of its death, a total of around 50 orcas joined to feed on the fresh kill. It was reported that orcas killed a blue whale calf in a second attack observed on April 6, 2019. The third attack was recorded on March 16, 2021. A dozen orcas pursued a blue whale, believed to be a yearling, for 25 km in a chase that lasted 97 minutes. For more from trending, click here.']


Orcas----SP.SPECIFIC
