
['Feeding Wildlife or Feeding Conflict: How Human Subsidy Affects Urban Wildlife\nA monkey was seen having a hot tea near Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai. (Sandeep Takke / BCCL, Mumbai) Feeding someone in need is considered philanthropy. And if others benefit from our leftovers, isn’t it a win-win situation? Not always, say scientists. Recent studies say that ‘human subsidy’ is a major driver of the increase in wildlife-human conflict, especially in urban areas. The rise of urban sprawls results in increased access to food, shelter and other resources—collectively called human subsidies—for wildlife. These subsidies can be intentional (e.g. direct feeding) or unintentional (e.g. waste dumping, presence of livestock). Wild species, which have the ability to adapt, choose growing urban settlements for survival rather than struggling with dwindling forest resources. This is not just a threat to city-dwelling humans, but also a grave ecological concern. “The term ‘human-wildlife conflict’ creates a picture of unruly, ferocious beasts within human establishments. I suggest visualising these as dynamic interactions between humans and wild animals respectively ‘occupying’ rapidly expanding urban spaces and constantly shrinking wild systems. More often than not, urban human-wildlife interactions are the result of enormous food subsidies offered by urban waste and socio-religious acts,” explains Nishant Kumar, a researcher jointly based at Edward Grey Institute, the University of Oxford and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). Subsidy-driven interactions with humans have induced numerous physical and behavioural changes in wildlife—both with respect to ‘time’ (e.g. turning nocturnal) and ‘space’ (e.g., living near a landfill). Major changes in foraging, movement, reproduction, metabolism, stress level and survival strategies are now evident across multiple species. Changes in animal behaviour in urban areas, such as increased aggression, greater population density and reduced fear of humans, are collectively termed ‘urban wildlife syndrome’. “The urban wildlife-human conflict is a persistent issue and it exists across the globe. A major cause is the way we manage our waste. Many suburban areas and small towns throw their waste in the open, attracting feral animals followed by wolves and leopards,” says Dr Vidya Athreya, Associate Director- Conservation Science, Wildlife Conservation Society. Here are a few examples of subsidy-driven urban wildlife-human interactions: Curious case of Black Kite-attacks in Delhi A WII study published this year showed that at any given moment, around one lakh Delhiites are at risk of black kite attacks. Many residents of Delhi, however, do not perceive them as a threat. For some communities in old Delhi, feeding black kites is a century-old ritual. Poor sanitation and unscientific waste disposal in the city add to the problem: kites feed on rodents and pigeons who thrive in unhygienic conditions. A Black kite takes off from its nest on a light pole to attack the photographer, who is standing on a balcony. (Fabrizio Sergio and Nishant Kumar) “The familiarity built through proximity with humans lowers the kites’ natural fear as they are often rewarded with food. This progressive attenuation of fear allows them to respond aggressively when humans are perceived as intruders in their territories. While their ecosystem services for humans in form of waste removal are evident, their role as potential disease carriers is overlooked,” explains Nishant Kumar. The study notes that the black kites are often seen aggressively snatching food and injuring humans. Microevolution may also be playing a role in the birds’ increased aggression. If aggressive kites become more productive by getting more food with less effort, then such behaviour could pass on to future generations, resulting in enhanced aggression over time. Pesky monkeys: aggressors or beggars? Advertisement Most tourist and pilgrimage sites in India have one ubiquitous sight: monkeys. They have become so common among our settlements that even the nation’s Parliament is not spared! Some years ago, authorities had to hire 40 people to disguise themselves as langurs (whom monkeys are scared of) just to chase away monkeys from the Parliament premises. A conservative estimate puts the number of monkey bites in Delhi at 1800 cases per year. What is driving such aggression? Experts think food subsidies make monkeys habituated to human presence and often result in loss of fear and increased aggression. These traits are often passed on to future generations of monkeys, as well as to the non-urban monkey population. A monkey is seen at the IIT Madras campus in Chennai. (R Ramesh Shankar / BCCL, Chennai) One study finds that urban monkeys have up to 38% higher cholesterol levels than their rural counterparts. Dr Asmita Sengupta, a researcher at a Bengaluru-based research institute ATREE, explains, “With growing dependence on human subsidies, monkeys generally decrease consumption of natural food. Eating more human food leads to faster growth of individuals, increased reproduction and longer survival. These factors contribute to increased population, and in turn, lead to heightened conflict and increase the chance of bi-directional disease transmission between macaques and humans.” What’s more, monkeys are also seen employing novel behavioural traits such as ‘begging’ for food, using coo-calls and hand-extension gestures. Human subsidies are also responsible for the small single-male groups of monkeys that are radically different than the large groups found in forests, which have multiple males and females. Preference for human food not only affects their health but also the health of the ecosystem. A study in West Bengal found that the time spent by monkeys on the street increased 26 times during the tourist season. Leopards in town Leopards are highly adaptive and opportunistic predators. Urban livestock and feral animals that feed on urban waste act as unintentional subsidy that drives leopards towards cities. These cats very frequently enter urban settlements, like the leopard that entered a mall near Mumbai recently. A leopard cub was seen in Mumbai this February. (TOI, BCCL, Mumbai) “Leopards come into urban peripheries looking for easy preys like dogs and pigs. They have always been a part of cities like Mumbai, which has a forest right in the middle of the City. Most of the time, they are not seen and that is why I call them the ‘ghosts’ of Mumbai. Rescue teams in Mumbai are trained and equipped to efficiently capture wildlife. However, the same is not true for other cities in India,” says Dr Athreya. A study in western Maharashtra shows domestic animals constitute a whopping 87% of the leopard’s prey base. This indicates the extent to which the ‘wild’ is dependent on human subsidy. Urban wildlife The urban environment dramatically restricts wildlife to smaller areas compared to their natural habitats. For instance, a species thriving on food from a landfill multiplies rapidly, increasing the density but radically reducing the habitat space. A recent study in Uttarakhand shows that as many as 32 different animal species feed at garbage sites, resulting in lethal injuries and even premature deaths among the animals. Wildlife-human interaction in urban landscapes varies widely and therefore, managing it, requires novel techniques that are different from non-urban areas. Ecologists agree that we are yet to have a robust understanding of urban wildlife and ecology. Whether it is a case of wildlife entering urban areas or urban India encroaching on ‘wild’ areas, the threat to both humans and animals is growing. As we celebrate the Earth Day on April 22 with the 2019 theme ‘Protect Our Species’, a careful analysis of the problems faced by urban wild can help to maintain the integrity of urban environment. The increasing aggression and other behavioural changes of the ‘urban adapters’ must be thoroughly studied to develop solutions. Only then can we hope to build a new-age urban environment that is safe for both man and wild.']


Black Kite-attacks----SP.SPECIFIC

Delhi----LOC.CITY
