
['New Video Shows Dogs “Bleeding To Death” In German Testing Laboratory Where Monkeys Were Filmed Screaming\nWARNING! SOME OF THE CONTENT BELOW CAN BE DISTRESSING FOR SOME VEIWERS! WATCH AND READ THE ARTICLE ON YOUR OWN WILL! A new video that surfed the net shows dogs being kept in horrible conditions and are being left to bleed out to die after being brutally tortured at a testing laboratory in Germany. The video was released by Cruelty-Free International, an animal rights group, they are the same group that shared a video that showed monkeys screaming in pain after horrible tests. The new video that CFI shared shows beagles lying on a blood-stained floor. The video also shows a new brutal video of a monkey that is being force-fed through a long test tube, which is forced into its throat. The video and images that CFI shared are part of an undercover investigation that was conducted along with TOKO Tierschutz, an animal welfare group. The investigation was done against a test Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology in Mienenbüttel, Neu Wulmstorf. The video has sparked outrage amongst civilians and animal rights groups. CFI and TOKO Tierschutz said animals are being killed, poisoned, and are being treated without love at the laboratory. Many animal rights groups are demanding an immediate shut off of the company. CFI said that the animals in the videos that their undercover worker captured showed unlawful suffering of animals. The video shows sick dogs that were left to die alone inside their small cages. CFI says the dogs in the videos are being forced to take part in toxic experiments that are done to know a safe dosage of certain substances for humans. The tests that are done in the laboratory are done to establish a safe dosage for humans. The experiments that are done on animals leave them bleeding out, vomiting, breathing problems, organ failures, and if worst, even death. The group said, “Cats [were] each subjected to 13 blood samples taken over 10 hours. They struggle and cry out, [and are] left with sores on their legs.” They added, “In this laboratory, poisoning experiments are carried out on dogs, cats, monkeys, and rabbits. Our investigation with SOKO Tierschutz at Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology (LPT) has shed light on the horrors animals face behind closed laboratory doors.” They continued, “Dogs left bleeding and dying, monkeys routinely abused, all in the name of regulatory testing. We believe the scale of this abuse and the unimaginable suffering of cats, dogs, and monkeys is unlawful. Yet this is the reality of laboratory life for animals, and it cannot continue a moment longer.” An investigation has been launched by the authorities to prove the allegations that are set against LPT. The laboratory is still to release an official statement about the allegations that are placed against them.']


Dogs----SP.COMMON

Monkeys----SP.COMMON

dogs----SP.COMMON

Cruelty-Free International----AUTH.MISC

undercover investigation----DETECTION_METHOD
