
['4.5 Meter Crocodile Bites Hunter On The Penis After He Stepped On The Predator Thinking It Was A Log\nAn Australian hunter got lucky after he managed to escape an attack from a deadly crocodile that bit him in the crotch. Elston Lami Lami, a hunter, was paddling through the shallow waters of Minjilang on Croker Island in the Northern Territory of Australia when the incident happened. CROC ATTACK A hunter has told of his incredible escape from the jaws of a crocodile while wading through shallow water. #9News | http://9News.com.au Posted by 9 News Queensland on Monday, 28 October 2019 Elston said he stepped on something that he thought was a log, but as you may have guessed it by now, it was not a log. 42-year-old Elston said he stood on the top of the croc for around 15 seconds. Elston said, “I actually climbed on and stood on top of the croc for 15 seconds. My cousin then told me I was standing on top of its back, and in a split second [the crocodile] spun me around and knocked me over.” After 15 seconds, the Crocodile started flipping him and he hit the bank. This is when the massive crocodile started to attack him. According to Elston, the crocodile that attacked him was around between four-and-a-half and five meters in length. Elston said the croc locked its jaws on one of his legs, but he managed to free himself from the massive predator by kicking it and punching it. The croc retreated for some time, but Elston said he saw the croc coming back. He added, “I kept on dragging myself up the bank, and all I saw was a big splash. When he came up with his jaws open, I spread my left leg and he got me on the shorts. I held the jaw with my right hand, and I hammered it with my left hand, so I hit it four times.” Elston said he wouldn’t be around to tell the story if it were not for the inspiration of his 2 daughters. Elston said he saw the massive croc coming out from the water and chasing him. Elston added he ran as blood was coming out of his left leg. He continued, “I ran for my life. If it wasn’t for my kids, I wouldn’t be alive right now.” Elston was rushed to the Minjilang Community Health Centre and was moved to the Royal Darwin Hospital for better treatment. Elston is currently in a stable condition and even talks about the amazing tale. Jamie Humphreys, a pilot, said, “Basically, we landed and we were able to load him straight away. He was in a fairly stable condition and he was alert and able to chat with us. This is his first time being attacked by a crocodile. He said he never had fears about walking through murky water or creeks before but he’s changed his mind now.” Hope you a speedy recovery, Mr. Elston!']


4.5 Meter----QTY

Crocodile----SP.COMMON

Log----ITEM

crocodile----SP.COMMON

Elston Lami Lami----SUS.NAME

hunter----SUS.AFFIL

Elston----SUS.NAME

log----ITEM

42-year-old----SUS.AGE
