
['Killer Rabbit\nIt\'s small. It\'s fluffy. It\'s adorable. And if you get on its bad side, your death will be painful, but swift. Related to but distinct from Fluffy the Terrible, as well as being sort of a subtrope to Our Monsters Are Weird, the Killer Rabbit is any monster that\'s far more dangerous than it looks. Maybe it\'s strong for its size, poisonous on a massive level, has flesh-rending pointy bits that aren\'t readily apparent, or can just turn into something far more dangerous. Either way, it can make a person wary of picking on small, defenseless animals, much like the Old Master can make a person more eager to respect their elders. In many cases, the creature isn\'t even all that harmful unless you actually mess with it, whether intentionally or not. This trope takes its name from the "Dread Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog" in Monty Python and the Holy Grail, which seems to be a completely ordinary bunny rabbit, with the notably unusual ability to leap through the air at high speed and tear out people\'s throats. This creature is also known as a "Vorpal Bunny", a name which comes from the monster of that name in the original Wizardry game from 1981, possibly inspired by the Monty Python movie and is named after "The Vorpal Blade", a fictional sword used to kill the title creature in the Lewis Carroll poem "Jabberwocky". The name also spread (via Dungeons & Dragons) to other games such as Quest for Glory and Ultima Online. There\'s enough truth behind this that one of the first things many children are taught is "don\'t try to play with any animal until you know it\'s friendly." (Another lesson, learned later in life by many, sometimes too late, is: "Animals can become unfriendly pretty damn fast.") Specific types of Killer Rabbits include Evil Girl Scouts and Ridiculously Cute Critters that are secretly evil. Civilizations that are more dangerous than they look are Superweapon Surprises. Killer Rabbits are the most notable subversion of What Measure Is a Non-Cute?, which is pervasive enough for everyone to assume that cute animals are friendly. This trope is pervasive enough that if any of the Five Races in games seems to be cute and harmless, they would by definition have to be occasional Killer Rabbits to make them viable to play. For cases where the Killer Rabbit is a literal rabbit, see Hair-Raising Hare. If it has a scary name, but not a scary demeanor, it\'s Deathbringer the Adorable. Compare: Happy Fun Ball; Beware the Nice Ones; Legendary Catfish; Adorable Abomination; Crouching Moron, Hidden Badass; Cute but Cacophonic; Badass Adorable; Super Fun Happy Thing of Doom;Face of an Angel, Mind of a Demon; and The Not-So-Harmless Punishment. If the video game character becomes a Killer Rabbit only when you hamper him, then he\'s Savage Setpiece. Contrast: Level Five Onix; Holy Hand Grenade (which is often the most effective way to deal with this). Not to be confused with Kill da Wabbit. Or a Killer Robot. Examples of Killer Rabbit include: Advertising Anime and Manga In the manga of Fullmetal Alchemist , Pride, the oldest and arguably strongest homunculus, has the physical appearance of a child. Wrath in the first anime. , has the physical appearance of a child. The Puchuus in Excel Saga. They resemble adorable teddy bears, but plan to take over Earth by any means necessary, even if it means blowing up major population centers. They also have a piss-ugly Game Face when struck and/or in pain, which happen to look like Golgo 13\'s. "AUGGH! You make-a me bleed!" Comic Books Film The main villain of |Toy Story 3 is an adorable pink teddy bear ("And he smells like strawberries!"). is Watership Down. [In]famous for its rabbit violence. Woundwort: I\'ll tear out every throat in the place! Holly: Both his ears were ripped to shreds. He was lucky... Wallace and Gromit - The Curse of the Were-Rabbit After the end credits of Finding Nemo , an angler fish approaches a tiny fish... which then opens its jaws wide enough to swallow the angler in one gulp. , an angler fish approaches a tiny fish... which then opens its jaws wide enough to swallow the angler in one gulp. The title character in Riki Tiki Tavi. Awww... he\'s so cute and fuzzy... HOLY SHIT LOOK WHAT HE DID TO THAT COBRA! However, Riki Tiki Tavi isn\'t malevolent. He\'s actually trying to kill the cobras because they\'re harming the humans, so this is a more traditional example of Reptiles Are Abhorrent and possibly also What Measure Is a Non-Cute?. He does display slight Heroic Sociopath tendencies, however. It was justified to kill the cobra and his eggs to protect his owner, it is a little darkly to outright gloat about it to his widow\'s face (especially since preserving her family was the whole point of their attack). "And Nag was dead before the big man blew him up! I killed Nag! Come and fight with me, Nagaina!" "Look at the bones!" Given a Lampshade Hanging in Galaxy Quest : while the rest of the crew is Squeeing about how adorable the child-like alien miners are, the very Genre Savvy Guy worries, "Oh, sure, they\'re cute now. But they\'re going to get mean. And they\'re going to get ugly somehow. And there\'s going to be thousands of them." Seconds later, he\'s proved right. : while the rest of the crew is Squeeing about how adorable the child-like alien miners are, the very Genre Savvy Guy worries, "Oh, sure, they\'re cute now. But they\'re going to get mean. And they\'re going to get ugly somehow. And there\'s going to be thousands of them." Seconds later, he\'s proved right. Early in Barbarella , the title character is similarly menaced by a group of dolls whose mouths show very pointy teeth. Later in the movie, she is nearly killed by vicious killer budgies (parakeets). , the title character is similarly menaced by a group of dolls whose mouths show very pointy teeth. Later in the movie, she is nearly killed by vicious killer budgies (parakeets). The Mogwai in Gremlins , except the original Gizmo; fluffy and adorable, they are cruel tricksters who eventually turn into hideous (yet still somewhat cute) monsters which go on a deadly rampage. Indeed, every imaginable variant on this trope seems to run through most, if not all, Gremlin folklore. , except the original Gizmo; fluffy and adorable, they are cruel tricksters who eventually turn into hideous (yet still somewhat cute) monsters which go on a deadly rampage. Indeed, every imaginable variant on this trope seems to run through most, if not all, Gremlin folklore. Dennis Nedry in Jurassic Park gets killed by a fairly harmless-looking dilophosaurus... after it spits poison in his face, then ambushes him when he tries to get back to his truck. It should be noted that dilophosaurs probably couldn\'t do that. Then again, we really have no way of knowing, but they certainly did not have those nifty-looking frills. Also, Dilophosaurs were much bigger than the one in the movie. Which is ironic, considering that the diminutive Velociraptors, actually the size of a dog and covered in feathers, were sized up by Rule of Scary. In the movie, the "Velociraptors" looked more like Utahraptor , a big raptor (related to Velociraptor) found in North America (Velociraptor is from Asia). A more realistic raptor would\'ve been the perfect Killer Rabbit. The first Utahraptor fossils weren\'t discovered until shortly after the book that the movie was based on was written. Presumably the movie version stuck with the book\'s name instead of calling them Utahraptors because Velociraptor sounds cooler. The comment that the raptors look like turkeys becomes Hilarious in Hindsight in light of subsequent advances in palaeontology revealing that dinosaurs did indeed resemble birds a lot more than we thought. Furthermore, there are small, harmless-near-cute-looking Procompsognathus/Compsognathus in Jurassic Park: The Lost World , whose packs is enough to turn a healthy adult male into... gets killed by a fairly harmless-looking dilophosaurus... after it spits poison in his face, then ambushes him when he tries to get back to his truck. "Did you find him?" "...Just the parts they didn\'t like." Hannibal King: You made a goddamn vampire... Pomeranian?!? Literature The Plague Star , by George R.R. Martin (of A Song of Ice and Fire fame) featured creatures called "hellkittens." These were much like the Arduin "killkittens" (see their entry in the Tabletop RPG folder). Except rather than secreting their paralytic venom through hollow claws, they spat it in wads of powerfully acidic saliva. , by George R.R. Martin (of fame) featured creatures called "hellkittens." These were much like the Arduin "killkittens" (see their entry in the Tabletop RPG folder). Except rather than secreting their paralytic venom through hollow claws, they it in wads of powerfully acidic saliva. Another literal killer rabbit is the Miraj (also rendered Al-Mi\'raj, or various other variations on the two) of Islamic/Arabian poetry and folklore. A yellow rabbit with a single large horn, it can kill and eat things much larger than itself. It appears in early editions of Dungeons & Dragons —with a third-party company porting it to 3e—where some of them have Psychic Powers. It also appears in Dragon Quest where, due to the translators apparently flipping coins, it\'s sometimes called the "bunnicorn". killer rabbit is the Miraj (also rendered Al-Mi\'raj, or various other variations on the two) of Islamic/Arabian poetry and folklore. A yellow rabbit with a single large horn, it can kill and eat things much larger than itself. It appears in early editions of —with a third-party company porting it to 3e—where some of them have Psychic Powers. It also appears in where, due to the translators apparently flipping coins, it\'s sometimes called the "bunnicorn". Margaret Atwood\'s Oryx and Crake includes wolvogs, creatures that look like friendly dogs, and when they are not ruthlessly killing other creatures, they act like friendly dogs. They can go from friendly to homicidal, and back, quickly. includes wolvogs, creatures that look like friendly dogs, and when they are not ruthlessly killing other creatures, they like friendly dogs. They can go from friendly to homicidal, and back, quickly. Bunnicula has a vampire-like rabbit that Chester assumes is a killer rabbit, but there\'s no evidence that he ever actually does any harm whatsoever besides draining vegetables. Another author reimagined Bunnicula as an Evil Overlord which is pretty charming has a vampire-like rabbit that Chester is a killer rabbit, but there\'s no evidence that he ever actually does any harm whatsoever besides draining vegetables. Norska in the Dragaera series are carnivorous rabbits that eat dragons. series are carnivorous rabbits that eat dragons. In Terry Goodkind\'s Soul of the Fire, an embodiment of evil either possesses or impersonates a chicken. Strangely, the main characters are capable of realizing this... which means you have two badasses who rule the known freaking world and who can alternately make people her slave or destroy armies with a wave of his hand scared shitless by a goddamn chicken. Live-Action TV In one episode of Xena: Warrior Princess , sidekick Gabrielle must fend off a vicious attack by what is essentially the Rabbit of Caerbannog. , sidekick Gabrielle must fend off a vicious attack by what is essentially the Rabbit of Caerbannog. The original Basil Brush. The Furbie-esque Nubbins in Sanctuary are a variant of this—they\'re only dangerous in large groups and when being directly attacked, but their extremely high reproductive rate and lack of predators outside their natural environment make them potentially highly destructive to the ecosystem. Unfortunately, they\'re a Hive Mind far brighter than they seem, and are more than willing to sacrifice individual lives to escape and spread. are a variant of this—they\'re only dangerous in large groups and when being directly attacked, but their extremely high reproductive rate and lack of predators outside their natural environment make them potentially highly destructive to the ecosystem. Unfortunately, In an episode of Honey I Shrunk the Kids called "Honey, the Bunny Bit It", Nick Szalinski revives the school mascot à la Frankenstein, and chaos ensues as it runs amok. called "Honey, the Bunny Bit It", Nick Szalinski revives the school mascot à la Frankenstein, and chaos ensues as it runs amok. An America\'s Funniest Home Videos episode features a rabbit fighting a snake. The rabbit kicks the snake\'s proverbial ass, forcing the reptile to retreat up a low-hanging tree, despite the rabbit attempting to yank the snake down for more. episode features a rabbit fighting a snake. The rabbit kicks the snake\'s proverbial ass, forcing the reptile to retreat up a low-hanging tree, despite the rabbit attempting to yank the snake down for more. When Count Duckula asks a spaceman to take him to the most dangerous planet in the galaxy he gets to meet the Fluffy Bunnies of Planet Cute, who want everything to be sweet and pretty and cuddly, and get very mean when Duckula and co. persist in being grouchy and sour. Music New Media As a general rule, message boards such as Spacebattles.com generally agree that the sillier a character is, the more dangerous they are and the higher they place on a Cool Versus Awesome combat tier. As a result, "whacky cartoon" characters like Bugs Bunny and Kirby are described as being able to easily defeat more (relatively) "realistic" characters like Jedi or Master Chief. This is largely due to them not being bound by the laws of reality and thus able to do things like shrug off rocket fire and swallow man-sized creatures whole. Not physically dangerous, but the subjects of the website Disapproving Rabbits can cause a severe feeling of inferiority. Especially this one. Newspaper Comics Twisted ToyFare Theatre usually brings in unpopular characters in order to gruesomely kill them for a Take That. The Ewoks, however, instead became a race of vicious, psychopathic Killer Rabbits who dismember, kill, and eat anything that crosses them. Mostly because they are little carnivores with no regards for intelligent life, from the original canon. Puppet Shows Fizgigg from The Dark Crystal . If a tribble and a bear trap had a baby.... . If a tribble and a bear trap had a baby.... "HI, I\'M A BUNNY!" This is a subversion. You don\'t need to be a genius to realize how dangerous Carl is...especially if you fit in his mouth. Radio In the the radio show Old Harrys Game , Satan finds the most evil being in the world is a Dolphin. Called Chuckles. , Satan finds the most evil being in the world is a Dolphin. Called Chuckles. In one episode of A Prairie Home Companion, cowboys Dusty and Lefty come across "The Free-Range Chicken", which they then engage, and nearly lose to, in a gunfight. Recorded and Stand-Up Comedy Richard Pryor\'s "Africa" routine has a passage invoking this, when he\'s saying that animals in the jungle have "a different attitude" from those you see in a zoo. He portrays a man telling his wife to roll up the car window; when she protests that the creature outside is just a rabbit, the man insists, explaining, "Ain\'t no rabbit ever looked at me like that. Tabletop Games Toys The Werebears toys were seemingly adorable teddy bears with reversible heads and paws that would reveal their "nasty" face when turned inside out. Video Games Orz: Nnnnnggggaaaahhhhh!!!!!! It is dancing!!!! Dwarf Fortress Wiki: [T]here is only one thing to do if you come across a river full of carp and you don\'t want your dwarves to die... Run. Run and never look back. Toady One: I think I made the fish too hardcore. Carp have stepped down from this position in favor of giant sponges , which will kill your dwarves if they get close to it. Not bad for an animal who shouldn\'t be able to even move. This deadliest arises from two things about the sponge; firstly, due to having only one body part, its effectively invincible to brute force. Other by pulping or bisecting, but it\'s not easy to inflict on "giant"-anything. While it doesn\'t chase your dwarves down, if its located in a river, it\'s bound to cause mass job cancellations. The deadly part comes in when one realizes just how heavy giant sponges are; even with the pathetic push attack that a creature with no natural attacks recieves, a giant sponge can easily shatter a dwarf\'s spine. If you ever encounter the illusive vampire giant sponge, which can not only move but can also leave the water, may the gods protect you. Common keas are thieving parrots. The giant keas are the same, but with enough of strength and lifting capacity to steal anvils and ability to crack skulls, so you are stuck with rampaging homicidal kleptomaniacal psychopaths, in the form of parrots. Also, they come in groups of 5-10. And once your archers arrive to take care of the problem, keas will fly away, to return another day. Unless you moved everything and everyone in the embark belowground and closed the door before you met them, your dorfs probably are in for it. If you did, crossbows from cover can clear the area. Even better, the their thieving habits can lead them into cage traps with mine carts as bait: they are tameable and valuable… just make sure you won\'t accidentally release a half-feral giant kea inside the trade depot.  DF wiki: Their habit of going into your fort and stealing your stuff will mean these monsters will come right into contact with your dwarves and fight. And do not expect a civilian, unarmored dwarf to win any of these fights. Giant kea will kill your dwarves faster than you can say, "It\'s just a big parrot, what harm could it do?" I was quite horrified when two blood dragons attacked me out in the woods. I was even more horrified when I turn around, having killed one of them together with Lydia, only to find that Frost had dealt with the other by himself. Could it have been a bug? It’s Bethesda, there are more bugs than lines of code. But. BUT. Frost is also the most terrifying creature in Skyrim. Dragonborn included. Web Animation The Bunnykill web animation series. A liberal exercise in the trope of Killer Rabbitry (and Katanas Are Just Better). web animation series. A liberal exercise in the trope of Killer Rabbitry (and Katanas Are Just Better). The Metal Gear Solid short "Crab Battle!", where Naked Snake gets his ass handed to him by a Kenyan Mangrove Crab. short "Crab Battle!", where Naked Snake gets his ass handed to him by a Kenyan Mangrove Crab. Happy Tree Friends has several small animals that are for some reason vicious. Whistle, the man-eating puppy, a man-eating baby turtle, and a flock of man-eating ducks have all appeared. Plus, well, most of the cast. has several small animals that are for some reason vicious. Whistle, the man-eating puppy, a man-eating baby turtle, and a flock of man-eating ducks have all appeared. Plus, well, most of the cast. The short animated film Red, where Little Red Riding Hood refuses the advances of the wolf (who looks like a slightly feral child wearing a wolf costume) after spilling the cakes she was going to bring to her grandmother. After leaving brokenhearted, Red encounters a unicorn-horned rabbit, which she hugs (not noticing the evil toothed grin it makes before it mutates into a bear-sized horned monster that was ready to devour Red before the wolf comes back in time to save the day. Web Comics Kevin and Kell : Coney Dewclaw might as well be the Trope Codifier. Nobody who doesn\'t know her beforehand would be able to tell by looks alone that her mother is not only a wolf, but a top-notch hunter. She definitely got her appetite from the same, having left a long trail of the blood and bones of anybody who has attempted to prey on her, her family and her friends in her wake. The picture at the top might as well be a real-life image of what she is capable of. She has directly saved her siblings, her father, her grandmothers, her grandfather, the entire Rabbit Council, R.L., and many others in separate incidents via her skills/appetite. Her dad, Kevin, might count as well. He\'s three times the size of any other rabbit we\'ve seen in the strip (including his parents and sister) and mostly muscle (in fact, he used to have a side job as a masked wrestler). : Sluggy Freelance : Bun-Bun. He once skeletonized a shark that had the misfortune of attacking him, and went on a holiday-massacring rampage as part of his vendetta against Santa Claus. Also in Sluggy Freelance there\'s "The Evil", 18 (6 + 6 + 6) "demon kittens" that go on a killing spree if they have not had milk in the last 24 hours. Of course, these kittens are literally the spawn of Satan. They show up in two story arcs found here and here. : "Kicking a kitten... A grown man punting a kitten who was looking the other way... It was the bravest thing I\'ve ever seen." Quentin: You know, Groonch, there is an old saying in the seven systems about an unarmed Racoonan... pity you never heard it. Horrified Barbarian: A HAMSTER!!! OH MY GOD!!! Confused Wizard: What???? Horrified Barbarian: A hamster bite is one damage point, and it bites and bites and bites! It can take hours before you die! A slow, agonizing death ... LOOK OUT, IT\'S ATTACKING!!! Web Original Western Animation Jumba Jukiba: I tried to give you my good looks, but let\'s face it, something... went wrong. A Disney Adventures comic showed that this is because somehow one of the creatures he was created from was... a puppy. One of the "Aesop and Son" segments from Rocky and Bullwinkle has a wolf attempting to steal the dentures from a sheepdog in order to render him harmless. After actually managing to succeed, he proceeds to attack one of the sheep, immediately getting fought off by one of the sheep since it also has dentures. has a wolf attempting to steal the dentures from a sheepdog in order to render him harmless. After actually managing to succeed, he proceeds to attack one of the sheep, immediately getting fought off by one of the sheep since it also has dentures. Aqua Teen Hunger Force uses this trope a lot, whether it\'s a little yellow dog that assrapes guys, a murderous, cokehead duck made out of used condoms and drug needles, little midgets who look like white rice and carry fishhooks to rip your dick off with... uses this trope a lot, whether it\'s a little yellow dog that assrapes guys, a murderous, cokehead duck made out of used condoms and drug needles, little midgets who look like white rice and carry fishhooks to rip your dick off with... Looney Tunes The character Slowpoke Rodriguez is Speedy Gonzalez\'s cousin, and "the slowest mouse een all Mexico," but he knows hypnosis and carries a .45 revolver. Bugs Bunny. Once something means war, there\'s no stopping him. To make that point all the clearer, at the end of this clip there\'s even an ominous drum boom as he says it. Droopy the dog looks like he is an innocent helpless little dog but when he gets angry he will slam the villain many times before tossing them away into something that hurts even more like a cactus. Tom and Jerry and friends are a cat and mouse who always have something to argue about including sometimes trying to kill one another over the simplest things how ever in certain cartoons if there is a bigger problem they are usually working together Two episodes had Jerry buy a dog that was SMALLER THAN HE IS. But this dog was so fast and violent that Tom was overwelmed. The dog is actually stronger than Tom despite being 20 times smaller. The deadpan little Mynah Bird in Chuck Jones\' Inki series. He can demolish anything up to and including a brontosaurus, but always offscreen. series. He can demolish anything up to and including a brontosaurus, but always offscreen. The Dark Lord Chuckles the Silly Piggy in Dave the Barbarian , who is a cute little piggy and a dark lord of evil. , who is a cute little piggy and a dark lord of evil. The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy Played rather straight when Pud\'n wishes for a cute bunny that will love him forever... and it immediately reveals itself to be a psychotic, murderous nightmare. Also, the Happy Huggy Stuffy Bears, adorable stuffed bears that were created by Eris to sow chaos in the world by hypnotizing their owners to do their bidding. Eris\' scheme is undone when one angers Mandy by saying that she\'ll be only the second most powerful in the world, at which point Mandy orders Grim to decapitate all of them. Inverted with Billy\'s "son" Jeffy, a huge, hideous spider who\'s extremely friendly and wants only to be loved. The Chubb Chubbs, from the video of the same name, are the terror of the galaxy. They look like a combination of the cutest features of piglets and ducklings... except when they\'re baring their several rows of shark-like teeth and eating barbarian invaders alive. They also enjoy cuddling and karaoke. Catscratch had an episode which had a duckling in it—and Gordon was extremely terrified of said duckling because of an incident that happened when he was a kitten (the duckling beat the snot out of him with tremendous superhuman strength and horrific fighting skills), but later on Gordon musters up the courage to finally defeat the duckling—after it\'s beaten the snot out of him AGAIN. had an episode which had a duckling in it—and Gordon was extremely terrified of said duckling because of an incident that happened when he was a kitten (the duckling beat the snot out of him with tremendous superhuman strength and horrific fighting skills), but later on Gordon musters up the courage to finally defeat the duckling—after it\'s beaten the snot out of him AGAIN. Johnny Test has a cute kitty cat as one of its villains; said kitty cat possesses a cannon that turns people into cats. has a cute kitty cat as one of its villains; said kitty cat possesses a cannon that turns people into cats. The Fairly OddParents played with this trope as well. The Gigglepies are a race of cute little bunny like creatures that are a cross between Care Bears in terms of looks and cuteness and Pokémon in terms that they are apparently collectible. They roam the galaxy, coming in cereal boxes and use their cuteness and mind-controlling rhymes to subjugate the population, force them to buy them in excess and eventually cost the planet its freedom. Of course with the Yugopotamians, who fear anything cute, making the populace afraid of them works just as well. Once they\'re done looting the planet they destroy it and move on to the next one. "ISN\'T THAT CUTE!?" "No! It\'s horrible! And didn\'t rhyme!" "Cujo" the ghost dog in Danny Phantom . A small, playful, super adorable ghost puppy... that can turn into a twenty-foot monster who\'s aggressive meter is off the charts. "Beware of Dog" signs would be an understatement . . A small, playful, super adorable ghost puppy... that can turn into a twenty-foot monster who\'s aggressive meter is off the charts. "Beware of Dog" signs would be an . Metalocalypse : The band buys an island full of nuclear mutants and converts it into a home for "wayward kitties." The kitties kill everyone on the island. : The band buys an island full of nuclear mutants and converts it into a home for "wayward kitties." The kitties kill everyone on the island. Ling Ling from Drawn Together , like the Foster\'s Home for Imaginary Friends example, is an adorable Pikachu-esque rodent... who is also a murderous Heroic Sociopath who kills at the drop of a hat (in the beginning of the show anyway). In just the first episode, he brutally kills and devours another house mate because his name is uttered 3 times. This applies to any of the Pokémon spoofing characters on the show though, as it takes the battling aspect of the series and cranks it up to Grotesque Cute levels. , like the example, is an adorable Pikachu-esque rodent... who is also a murderous Heroic Sociopath who kills at the drop of a hat (in the beginning of the show anyway). In just the first episode, he brutally kills and devours another house mate because his name is uttered 3 times. This applies to any of the spoofing characters on the show though, as it takes the battling aspect of the series and cranks it up to Grotesque Cute levels. Ed, Edd \'n\' Eddy , quoting Johnny: "I told you bunnies would take over the world, Plank!" In that instance, the bunnies weren\'t so much attacking as they had reproduced so much that they flooded the cul-de-sac. A better example would be the rooster Rowlf sics on Eddy in the episode when Eddy loses his voice. , quoting Johnny: "I told you bunnies would take over the world, Plank!" In the The Life and Times of Juniper Lee episode "Welcome Bat Otter", the eponymous bat otter looks like an adorable little otter with bat wings. It\'s threat level is hyped by the antagonist of the episode, the corrupt businessman mummy Skeeter Khommen-Gettit. It turns out it\'s threat isn\'t just hype when it eats Skeeter. The expression on the bat otter\'s face at the end of the episode hints that its diet isn\'t limited to evil magical creatures... episode "Welcome Bat Otter", the eponymous bat otter looks like an adorable little otter with bat wings. It\'s threat level is hyped by the antagonist of the episode, the corrupt businessman mummy Skeeter Khommen-Gettit. It turns out it\'s threat isn\'t just hype when it Skeeter. The expression on the bat otter\'s face at the end of the episode hints that its diet isn\'t limited to evil magical creatures... Beast Wars had a flower that looked harmless, but got its point across to Proud Warrior Race Guy Dinobot, by nailing him with a spiky seed right where he couldn\'t reach. Dinobot: From now on I shoot my dinner salad before I eat it! Real Life Sports']


angler fish----SP.COMMON

angler fish----SP.SPECIFIC

Riki Tiki Tavi----SUS.NAME

Gabrielle----SUS.NAME

Rabbit of Caerbannog----SP.COMMON

Gabrielle----SUS.NAME

Rabbit of Caerbannog----SP.COMMON

Dusty----SUS.NAME

Lefty----SUS.NAME

Crab Battle----ROUTE.SRC

Naked Snake----SP.COMMON

Kenyan Mangrove Crab----SP.SPECIFIC

Kenyan Mangrove Crab----SP.SPECIFIC

man-eating ducks----SP.SPECIFIC

Whistle----SP.SPECIFIC

HAMSTER----SP.SPECIFIC

wolf----SP.COMMON

cokehead duck----SP.SPECIFIC

used condoms----ITEM

fishhooks----ITEM

cokehead duck----SP.SPECIFIC

Slowpoke Rodriguez----SUS.NAME

Dark Lord----AUTH.MISC

Chuckles----CRIME.CAT

Jeffy----SUS.NAME

kitty cat----SP.SPECIFIC

Cujo----SUS.NAME

wayward kitties----SP.SPECIFIC

wayward kitties----SP.SPECIFIC

corrupt businessman mummy----SUS.AFFIL

Skeeter Khommen-Gettit----SUS.NAME
