
['‘Tiger on the highway’: Video of big cat walking across road goes viral\nHumanity at its worst: 3 men hang dog to death in Ghaziabad Man posts an \'insightful\' video of British Indian passport from 1927; Internet says \'precious\' Grandma can\'t contain delight after getting make-up on | Video ‘Tiger on the highway’: Video of big cat walking across road goes viral India oi-Deepika S New Delhi, Feb 02: A video of a tiger strolling on a national highway in Tamil Nadu gone viral on social media after it was shared on Twitter by IFS officer Susanta Nanda and photographer Raj Mohan. Recommended Video Tiger takes a stroll on national highway | Watch viral video | OneIndia News In a video doing the rounds on social media, the Tiger can be seen taking a stroll down the empty road before disappearing into the woods. The 15-second clip was captured by Raj Mohan. "Woke up to this at #valparai! As narrated by my wife- Literally, woke up to a #tiger and stopped dead in my tracks for a few seconds when @rajography47 shouted \'Tiger Tiger Tiger\' while I was fast asleep. (sic)," he wrote. "Wow - what a stride and leap - terrific. Hope the lovely creature remains healthy and unpoached upon," wrote a twitter user. "After seeing this video of tiger roaming in roads in Valparai .. next time stopping in between during Valparai hill drive will be a fear drive," wrote another user. Wow - what a stride and leap - terrific. Hope the lovely creature remains healthy and unpoached upon. — Smile😊🌻 (@anjutalwar) January 31, 2022 Majestic. If anybody is on the road, pl take side. Your regal is coming! — P Raghavendra Prasad (@PRaghavendraPr5) February 2, 2022 What a majestic gait… The king is on the prowl — Dr Mrinalini Anant (@AnantMrinalini) January 31, 2022 For Breaking News and Instant Updates Allow Notifications Story first published: Wednesday, February 2, 2022, 15:17 [IST]']


Tiger----SP.COMMON

big cat----SP.COMMON

3----SUS.NUMBER

men----SUS.GENDER

Tiger----SP.COMMON

tiger----SP.COMMON

IFS officer----OFF.DESIG

Susanta Nanda----OFF.NAME

photographer----OFF.DESIG

Raj Mohan----OFF.NAME
