
['The Friendly Mongoose Question Answer Solution\nThe Friendly Mongoose Question Answer Solution 1. Why did the farmer bring a baby mongoose into the house? Answer: The farmer thought that his son is growing. He needs a companion. He discussed these facts with his wife. His wife liked the idea. So, the farmer brought a baby mongoose in the house. 2. Why didn’t the farmer’s wife want to leave the baby alone with the Mongoose? Mongoose is a carnivore. It eats small animals and snakes. She thought that Mongoose could hurt his baby too. So, she was not in the opinion of leaving the baby with the Mongoose. 3. What was the farmer’s comment on his wife’s fears? The farmer replied on wife’s doubt that Mongoose is a friendly animal. He is as sweet as our son and they are best friends. You needn’t be afraid. 4. Why did the farmer’s wife strike the Mongoose with her basket? When the farmer’s wife arrived at the house, she saw the Mongoose with blood on face and pawns. She thought that Mongoose has attempted to her baby. She did not think or inspect the reality and struck the Mongoose with her basket. 5. Did she repent her hasty action? How does she show her repentance? After striking the Mongoose, she went to see her baby. Her baby was asleep, and a black snake was lying dead on the floor with the pool of blood. She understood that Mongoose had killed the snake, which could have harmed her baby. Now she realised what mistake she had done. She ran to see the Mongoose. But Mongoose was no more. Her repentance came as tears from her eyes. Extra Do you have a pet – a cat or a dog? If not, would you like one? How would you look after it? Are you for or against keeping birds in a cage as pets? Answer: No, I do not have a pet. But I would like to have one. A pet needs food and water after a regular interval. I will buy some pet food in the market and will give it to the pet. A pet also needs care and love. I will play with the pet and provide as much love a possible. No, I do not like pets or birds in a cage. They are living beings with senses. If I put them in a cage, it will hurt their right to freedom. Despite putting them in the cage, I prefer to pet them at home or neighboring areas. They are friendly animals, and if I care for them, play with them, they will also play with me. Discuss whether the wife took the decision in haste.? The farmer’s wife saw the blood bathed mongoose and without any though strikes the mongoose. The result was that the mongoose was no more. Here the mongoose was right. He saves the baby from the dangerous snake. The woman had a very guilty feeling, once she knew these facts. In real life we come with many situations where we do not give a chance to the second thought. For example, we become any on our brother or mother if we do not see our favorite toy; sometimes out of anger we break our thing. Such an act may result in the loss of the product. Anger hurt people. It reduces trust. Depending on the severity of the situation the result may also be severe. So, we should think rationally before acting on anything which may hurt other or may result in loss. See also: The Friendly Mongoose summary. The Friendly Mongoose summary in Hindi. Next: Chapter 2: The Shepherd’s Treasure Question Answer Solution The Friendly Mongoose Question Answer Solution A pact with the Sun Ref: A Pact with the Sun, NCERT.']


dog----SP.COMMON
