
['Massive de-snaring drive launched in Tadoba\nNAGPUR: Following the death of a young tigress due to a wire snare in Khatoda area on April 12, the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) authorities have intensified a de-snaring drive in the park.“We are scanning all waterholes and pathways to meadows used by wild animals inside and on the park’s periphery. At least nine teams consisting of 8-9 guards in each team are at work,” said TATR conservator of forests & field director NR Praveen.Praveen said though the drive was ongoing after reports about suspected snare injury to T6, the Shivanzari tigress in Kolsa range, it has been intensified after Khatoda incident which came to light on April 12.The injury to Shivanzari tigress’s neck is not of snare but looks like due to fight with another animal. “T6 was sighted at a water body in Makadkanar on April 17 and the wound has completely healed. Yet, the drive will continue,” said Praveen.Divisional forest officer (DFO) Shatanik Bhagwat, who is leading the de-snaring drive, informed the drive has been intensified from April 12 and the results are encouraging.“Earlier, there were three teams but now nine teams cover three TATR ranges — Tadoba, Mohurli and Kolsa. During the coming week, almost 100% meadows and water bodies in the park will be scanned and the practice will continue. As of now, no wire snares have been found,” said Bhagwat.“We are also scanning water holes around villages like Kolsa, Palasgaon, Rantalodi, Khutwanda and Karwa. On April 9, one of the teams learnt about the poaching of nilgai in Chorgaon on the park’s fringes and on April 15, a case of illicit felling. We have registered preliminary offence reports (PORs) in both cases,” said Bhagwat.The park has a history of laying wire snares by local villagers which was exposed first in 2010 when a tiger was killed in Kolsa in a wire snare. Two tribal villagers trying to trade the body parts were caught red-handed. The tragic incident of April 12 also exposes how these villagers kill wild animals for bush meat. This must be a regular practice but came to light as a tiger was found dead in snare. Officials also seized cache of arms used to kill herbivores and over 4-5 kg of wire snares from all the accused.Deputy director (core) NS Ladkat says, “After the arrest of four villagers from Palasgaon (Shingru) involved in killing Devdoh tigress, locals are on the back-foot. All the four poachers have been sent in magisterial custody remand (MCR) for 15 days by a Bhadravati court on Saturday.”Praveen says, “As local poachers are on the alert, we are doing surprise and random checks. The poachers lay traps in the evening and by morning remove them and hide them on trees and places which they only know about it. Hence, we are working strategically.”']


Tadoba----LOC.DISTRICT

NAGPUR----LOC.DISTRICT

April 12----DATE

Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) authorities----AUTH.SEIZE

TATR conservator of forests & field director----OFF.DESIG

Shivanzari tigress----SP.SPECIFIC

arms----ITEM

herbivores----SUS.AFFIL

4-5 kg----QTY

wire snares----ITEM

four----SUS.NUMBER

Palasgaon (Shingru----SUS.LOC

four----SUS.NUMBER

poachers have been sent in magisterial custody remand (MCR) for 15 days by a Bhadravati court on Saturday----OUTCOME
