
['13 arrested in connection Sambar deer poached in Gangaram forest\n(G.N.S) Dt. 16 Hyderabad Thirteen people connected with poaching a protected animal under Wildlife Act-1972 Sabar Deer were arrested by the Forest department officials. Sambar deer, a protected animal under Wildlife Act-1972, was killed in the dense forest of Gangaram mandal in Mahabubabad district, nearly 200 kms. They were produced before the Narsampet magistrate and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. They were sent to Warangal prison. Two residents of Jangalapally hamlet in Gangaram mandal set up snares in the interior forest area using clutch and brake wires of two-wheelers three days ago. “They found the deer in the snare on Wednesday morning. They butchered it and sold the meat to some of the hamlet dwellers,” Mahbubabad District Forest Officer Krishna Goud said. On a tip-off, the forest authorities raided a house in Jangalapally and seized the leftover meat along with the deer hide. Based on the duo’s confession, 10 more were detained. A case was registered against them under different sections of the Wildlife Protection Act-1972. “Sambar is a protected animal under schedule three of the Act. The accused are liable to imprisonment of up to three years,” the DFO said. Sambar deer is found in Kawal and Amrabad tiger reserves of Telangana. It is leaf eating animal and depends less on grass, say wildlife experts. Poachers are mostly using brake or clutch wires of vehicles to prepare snares which are kept close to water sources as the animals come there to quench their thirst, say the forest officials.']


13----SUS.NUMBER

arrested----CRIME.CAT

Sambar deer----SP.SPECIFIC

poached----CRIME.CAT

Gangaram forest----LOC.EXACT

Thirteen----SUS.NUMBER

Deer----SP.COMMON

arrested----CRIME.CAT

Forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

Sambar deer----SP.SPECIFIC

Jangalapally hamlet in Gangaram mandal----SUS.LOC

deer----SP.COMMON

Wednesday----DATE

morning----TIME

meat----ITEM

Krishna Goud----OFF.NAME

tip-off----DETECTION_METHOD

case was registered against them----OUTCOME
