
['Photos: Poachers threaten precious Madagascar forest and lemurs\nPhotos: Poachers threaten precious Madagascar forest and lemurs The lemurs of the Vohibola forest are in danger of extinction since the Vohibola Forest, one of the last primary forests in eastern Madagascar, has been illegally felled for charcoal production and the sale of rare wood for several years. Some kill the harmless creatures for food, others sell them as pets -- and to get to their prey, they chop down precious tropical trees. ...read more Follow Us Follow Us 1 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout Forest guides armed with paddles or bows and arrows patrol the Vohibola forest to try to surprise and scare off loggers but also to see the extent of the damage caused by counter-bankers near the village of Manambato, Madagascar. They are patrolling to track poachers who are inflicting grievous harm to this jewel of biodiversity. (Rijasolo / AFP) 2 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout The forest has at least 20 indigenous animal species, including six types of lemur, and 150 species of trees. “Because of these logger-poachers, I fear that this forest will one day be no more -- it will be just an empty space, where developers will grow walls of concrete,” said Tovolahy, whose nickname is Nabe. (Rijasolo / AFP) 3 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout Cecilien Ranaivo, mayor of the municipality of Ambinaninony, who is often accused by the forest rangers of the Vohibola forest of being one of the main traffickers of precious wood in the region is seen in his office. “It’s the villagers themselves who tip off the poachers that the police are coming,” said Ranaivo. “So obviously they don’t succeed in making many arrests.” (Rijasolo / AFP) 4 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout A significant amount of wood chips left by precious wood cutters in the Vohibola forest. Other damage to Vohibola and its natural population is being inflicted by the simple need for wood for cooking. The forest patrol frequently encounters the dismaying sight of empty spaces and mounds of bark -- the traces of illegal logging, burn them and sell the charcoal to Madagascans. They take rare woods such as ebony and use it to make charcoal. (Rijasolo / AFP) 5 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout Eric Rabenasolo, director-general for forests at the environment ministry, says that Madagascar’s nine million hectares (22.25 million acres) of forests are shrinking each year by between 50,000 and 100,000 ha. (A football pitch is roughly one hectare). (Rijasolo / AFP) 6 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout While illegal loggers are absent, forest guides armed with paddles or bows and arrows take the opportunity to inspect and destroy their makeshift village, consisting of about twenty huts, in the heart of the Vohibola forest. The state is trying to boost awareness of the dangers of such trafficking, urging people for instance to check the source of their cooking charcoal and encouraging villages to report illegal logging to the authorities. (Rijasolo / AFP) 7 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout A man sits in his canoe fishing in the waters of the Pangalanes Canal near the village of Manambato. “I never get too close to this forest in my boat,” confided Parfait Emmanuel, a fisherman in the village of Andranokoditra. “I don’t feel like getting chopped to pieces by a poacher.” (Rijasolo / AFP) 8 / 9 View Photos in a new improved layout Environmentalist Stephane Decampe has decided to launch his own mission to protect the lemurs. “They come from the town of Tamatave (70 kilometres north of Ambinaninony), along with their wives and children,” Decampe said. “They are dropped off here by boat, and have food but no meat... so they eat lemurs,” he said. He and his wife Angelique also recover lemurs that families use as pets. (Rijasolo / AFP)']


Poachers----SUS.AFFIL

Poachers----SUS.AFFIL

Stephane Decampe----SUS.NAME

Angelique----OFF.NAME

lemurs----SP.COMMON
