
['Three Booked For Hunting Porcupine, Eating Its Meat\nVADODARA: The forest department booked three persons for hunting a porcupine in the city. Forest officials had raided a house in Khodiyarnagar on Wednesday along with wildlife activist Hemant Vadhwana , who had informed them. The officials found porcupine quills from the terrace of the house.Mayaram Rajbhar , who owns the house, was questioned along with his wife. They told the cops that one Samir Patil had hunted the porcupine in the ravines of Vishwamitri river in Harni area on Tuesday. They cooked the meat of porcupine and ate it at the residence of Mayaram.“Investigations are on by the forest officials to ascertain if the accused have killed porcupines or other protected species in the past,” Vadhwana told TOI.He added that another activist Kartik Upadhyay too helped them in the raid.Porcupine is protected under Indian Schedule IV of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and hence killing it is an offence. However, this animal that comes under the large rodent category is killed rampantly for its meat along with its medicinal use.Porcupines have long and sharp quills that it uses to defend themselves from predators. They are usually found in river ravines, forests, grasslands and shrublands. Porcupines live in burrows and venture out mostly in the dark.']


Three----SUS.NUMBER

Porcupine----SP.COMMON

Meat----ITEM

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

three----SUS.NUMBER

porcupine----SP.COMMON

Khodiyarnagar----SUS.LOC

Wednesday----DATE

wildlife activist----AUTH.MISC

Hemant Vadhwana----OFF.NAME

porcupine----ITEM

quills----ITEM

Mayaram Rajbhar----SUS.NAME

Samir Patil----SUS.NAME

Tuesday----DATE

meat----ITEM

porcupine----SP.COMMON

Mayaram.“Investigations are on by the forest officials to ascertain if the accused have killed porcupines or other protected species in the past,” Vadhwana told TOI.He added that another activist Kartik Upadhyay too helped them in the raid.Porcupine is protected under Indian Schedule IV of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and hence killing it is an offence. However, this animal that comes under the large rodent category is killed rampantly for its meat along with its medicinal use.Porcupines have long and sharp quills that it uses to defend themselves from predators. They are usually found in river ravines, forests, grasslands and shrublands. Porcupines live in burrows and venture out mostly in the dark.----SUS.NAME
