
['Assam announces rewards for wanted Kaziranga rhino poachers\nGUWAHATI: The Assam government has announced a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh for providing information leading to the arrest of poachers and recovery of the horn of an adult female rhino. The rhino was killed at the Kaziranga National Park (KNP) about a month ago.  Assam’s Special Director General of Police, Law and Order, G.P. Singh offered a cash reward of Rs 2 lakh each leading to the arrest of three suspected poachers and Rs 5 lakh for providing information facilitating the authority to recover the horn of the killed rhino.  The wanted poachers have been identified as Abdul Matin, 36, Ataur Rahman, 35 and Asmat Ali, 35 – all residents of Biswanath district of North Assam.  Singh, who is also the chief of the Anti-Rhino Poaching Task Force, also tweeted the announcements and released photographs of the three suspected poachers. Also read : Assam: Woman killed as truck rams bike at Margherita  The police had on January 29, during an operation shot and injured a fourth person, accused of the poaching of the rhino in the Kohora range of Kaziranga.  The park officials said that the carcass of the female rhino, aged around 30 years, was found by the forest staff of the Hilekhonda camp area inside tall elephant grass on January 20 and the horn was missing.  According to the wildlife officials, it was the first case of rhino poaching in the state in the current year, and the incident happened days after the Assam government declared 2021 as the year with the least cases (only one) of rhino poaching in 21 years.  The Assam Police on January 26 deployed 20 commandos in Kaziranga for providing security in vulnerable areas and conducting special operations to curb poaching. Sniffer dogs were also occasionally deployed to track the poachers. Also read : Assam: Probe panel records 23 statements in Dhalpur firing incident  Poaching of rhinos and elephants for their horn and tusk had drastically reduced following a series of steps taken by the Assam Forest Department, including an increase in the number of forest guards.  The highest number of rhinos killed in Assam was 27 each in 2013 and 2014. Six were killed in 2017, seven in 2018, three in 2019 and two in 2020.  The Assam government last year formed the Anti-Poaching Task Force rhino poaching in Kaziranga, one of India’s seven UNESCO world heritage sites.  ']


Kaziranga rhino----ROUTE.SRC

Assam government----AUTH.SEIZE

Rs 5 lakh----VALUE

information----DETECTION_METHOD

horn----ITEM

Special Director General of Police, Law and Order----OFF.DESIG

G.P. Singh----OFF.NAME

three----SUS.NUMBER

horn----ITEM

Abdul Matin----SUS.NAME

36----SUS.AGE

Ataur Rahman----SUS.NAME

35----SUS.AGE

Asmat Ali----SUS.NAME

35----SUS.AGE

Biswanath district----SUS.LOC

January 29----DATE

carcass----ITEM

forest staff of the Hilekhonda camp area----AUTH.SEIZE

January 20----DATE

horn----ITEM
