
['Tiger death: Tumsar big cat was electrocuted, 2 held\nNagpur: Two days after a tiger was found dead in a water canal in Bapera under Nakadongri forest range under Bhandara division, forest officials cracked the case by arresting a farmer father-son duo for electrocuting the tiger in a farm fence and dumping it in the canal.On March 31 evening, the tiger, around 18 months old, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a small irrigation canal of the Bawanthadi river.One paw and claws of the tiger were missing and it was also injured, creating suspicion about the exact cause of death. A post-mortem performed by wildlife veterinarian Gunwant Bhadke revealed that it was a case of poaching and not a territorial fight as discussed.On March 2, the team led by ACF Saket Shende scanned the entire area with the police dog squad and got some leads. On the basis of these clues, five suspects were rounded up, including Tulshiram Dashrath Lilhare and his son Shashikant Lilhare. Both seem to be habitual offenders as several herbivore bones and body parts were seized from them.During spot investigations, the team found bones, skulls of wild animals and wooden pegs commonly used to electrocute animals on the farm of Lilhare. “We also found a trail of tiger pugmarks on the farm. The accused later admitted that the tiger died of electrocution, after which they shifted the carcass in a bullock cart and dumped the carcass in the canal anticipating that it would flow off with the force of water,” said Shende.The accused duo were arrested and produced before the judicial magistrate first class, Tumsar. The court remanded the accused to forest custody for five days. RFOs Manoj Mohite (Nakadongri), Govind Luche (Tumsar) and Sanjay Mendhe (mobile squad) were part of the probe team.“This is the second incident in which a tiger has been electrocuted. Earlier, on January 29, tiger B2 was killed in a similar manner. It is really a cause of concern and we appeal to the villagers that the tiger has been granted the highest level of protection under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. Killing them invites punishment from 3 to 7 years,” said Bhandara deputy conservator of forest Rahul Gavai.']


Tiger----SP.COMMON

Tumsar big cat----SP.SPECIFIC

2----SUS.NUMBER

March 31----DATE

evening----TIME

tiger----SP.COMMON

ACF----OFF.DESIG

Saket Shende----OFF.NAME

leads. On the basis of these clues, five suspects----DETECTION_METHOD

Tulshiram Dashrath Lilhare----SUS.NAME

Shashikant Lilhare----SUS.NAME

bones----ITEM

skulls----ITEM

wooden pegs----ITEM

RFOs----OFF.DESIG

Manoj Mohite----OFF.NAME

Govind Luche----OFF.NAME

Sanjay Mendhe----OFF.NAME

mobile squad)----AUTH.SEIZE
