
['Meet vervet monkeys who raid bars for cocktails\nMeet vervet monkeys who raid bars for cocktails By Telangana Today Published: Updated On - 06:25 PM, Mon - 21 February 22 Representational Image (Source: IANSPHOTO) Hyderabad: On the Caribbean island of St. Kitts, alcoholic monkeys roam the beaches waiting for people to leave their drinks. Yes, there is an entire island of drunken monkeys. The green vervet monkeys were introduced to the island in the 17th century. They were brought over with slaves from Africa and eventually developed a liking for alcohol in the form of fermenting sugar cane in the fields of the rum-producing island. Even since, these monkeys have been infamous for stealing cocktails from tourists. The monkeys would sneak down from the trees, jump on the tables and start drinking on spotting a drink that had been left unfinished. At times, they even raid local bars and beaches in search of their next cocktail. According to studies, if offered the choice between sugary water and sugary water with alcohol content in it, they choose the latter. And will drink enough to change their behavior. A research project has found that the animals divide into four main categories: binge drinker, steady drinker, social drinker, and teetotaller. However, the majority are social drinkers who indulge in moderation and only when they are with other monkeys. They never have it before lunch and prefer their alcohol to be diluted with fruit juice. While 15 per cent of vervet monkeys drink frequently and prefer their alcohol neat or diluted with water, the same proportion drink little or no alcohol. But five per cent are seriously abusive binge drinkers. They get drunk, start fights and consume as much as they can until passing out. Also Read: Scientists find new treatment for alcohol addiction Now you can get handpicked stories from Telangana Today on Telegram everyday. Click the link to subscribe. Click to follow Telangana Today Facebook page and Twitter .']


vervet monkeys----SP.COMMON

raid----CRIME.CAT

vervet monkeys----SP.COMMON

Caribbean island of St. Kitts----LOC.EXACT
