
['Tiger terror: Wild animal moving towards Papikonda-Sileru forest area; forest officials on alert\n7 Jun 2022 5:47 AM GMT Kakinada: Royal Bengal Tiger, which entered the agricultural fields of Prathipadu Mandal in the Kakinada district, is now moving towards the Papikonda-Sileru forest area (Papikonda National Park). On May 29, the tiger strayed into human habitation and killed six buffaloes in Gollaprolu. On receiving information, Andhra Pradesh Forest Department teams with around 150 personnel set up a base camp and installed CCTV cameras at 40 places to capture the animal. After four days, four cages were brought from Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Visakhapatnam, to capture the animal. Cages were set up with a prey offered as bait at places where pub marks were found. These were monitored 24/7. On June 4, the tiger arrived at the cage in Sarabhavaram but survived miraculously. Speaking to News Meter, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife-Rajahmundry) C. Selvam said, "On the night of June 6, the tiger was seen heading towards reserve forest and nearby water bodies. We have intensified the tracking. It is likely to move towards the Papikonda-Sileru belt forest area." Plan B Forest Officials are planning to tranquilize the tiger if it moves toward the agricultural fields. "The tiger is moving only during the night. It would be tough to tranquilize him during the night. We have kept our team and equipment, but that will be the last option," said Selvam. No tiger database The tiger, around 4-5 years old, is said to be in breeding age. According to National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), no database of the wandering tiger is available in Kakinada. The NTCA has a database from 2018. It collects data on the tigers once in four years. Forest officials suspect the tiger might have been a cub at that time, and therefore no data is available. This is said to be a new animal coming from Indravati reservoir, Chattisgarh.']


Tiger----SP.COMMON

Wild animal----SP.COMMON

Papikonda-Sileru forest area----LOC.EXACT

Papikonda-Sileru forest area----ROUTE.SRC

May 29----DATE

tiger----SP.COMMON

buffaloes----SP.COMMON

receiving information----DETECTION_METHOD

Andhra Pradesh Forest Department----AUTH.SEIZE

June 6----DATE
