
['Killing of hornbill: 4 to be booked under Wildlife Act\nWildlife wing of the state Forest department informed that the four individuals apprehended for the brutal killing of endangered Great Indian Hornbill, will now face charges under various provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. As per Section 51 of Wildlife Act, a person shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term that shall not be less than three years but which may extend to seven years and also with fine. The accused were currently under judicial custody in district jail, Wokha. Informing this, Wildlife Warden (Wildlife Division Dimapur) H. Tokaho Kinimi (IFS) said that the four have been identified as Myanthung Ezung (shooting and injuring); Nribemo Patton (beating the Hornbill with a bamboo pole and stomping on its neck); Rhyuzamo Patton and Renthungo Mozhui charged for plucking feathers, all residents of Bhandari town. Tokaho said that the Great Indian Hornbill is a protected Schedule-1 species which is accorded the highest level of protection and killing of such an animal carries the harshest of penalties under the law. He said the killing of the Hornbill in such a merciless and inhumane manner deserved condemnation from all sections of the society, and especially having occurred in a state where the Great Indian Hornbill is revered and embedded into the culture of its people. Tokaho reminded all that hunting has been banned throughout the state and that there was a standing order from the government “that hunting/killing of any wildlife can lead to complete cessation of all developmental funds to any village caught violating the order.” Her further stressed on the need for a collective effort to create awareness on conservation of wildlife and environment with the involvement of all stakeholders including village councils, churches, student unions, NGOs and all other local bodies including government agencies. While not denying that Nagas have had a history of hunting, he said there was a special need to work towards changing the mindset of the people as empathy towards wildlife has to come from within and this challenge still looms. “Let us all collectively work for conservation and may such an incident never occur ever again,” he stated.']


Killing----CRIME.CAT

hornbill----SP.COMMON

4----SUS.NUMBER

booked under Wildlife Act----OUTCOME

Wildlife wing of the state Forest department----AUTH.MISC

four----SUS.NUMBER

Great Indian Hornbill----SP.SPECIFIC

judicial custody in district jail, Wokha.----OUTCOME

Wildlife Warden (Wildlife Division Dimapur)----AUTH.MISC

four----SUS.NUMBER

Myanthung Ezung----SUS.NAME

Nribemo Patton----SUS.NAME

Hornbill----SP.COMMON

Rhyuzamo Patton----SUS.NAME

Renthungo Mozhui----SUS.NAME

Bhandari town. Tokaho----SUS.LOC
