
['The lion cubs planned to hunt ‘Sinkdar of the sea’, at the end the crocodile said why he is called the ‘king’ of the water!\nJungle is a proverb, you must have heard that only he can survive here. Who has the strength, has the ability to fight every problem and knows how to use his intelligence at the right time. This proverb applies to every animal that lives in the forest (wildlife video) because you have to hunt some other animal to survive and many times the hunter also makes a mistake in this hunting game. We all know that animals throw nets for prey. However, sometimes it succeeds, and sometimes other animals are deprived of prey. Something similar has come to the fore these days. Although you have seen many dangerous creatures fighting inside the forest, have you ever seen a crocodile and a lion fighting each other? If you haven’t seen it, watch this video where three lions try to hunt a crocodile together but forget that their privacy only goes to the forest, the crocodile is the real king of water. Watch the video here In the video you can see a crocodile sitting comfortably near a lake. At that time a lion comes there. Seeing the lion, the crocodile does no work. Rather he lives in peace in his place. Seeing the crocodile in this way, the king of the forest attacks him, as if the tiger is trying to attack the lion, there come two more lions and they also attack him. But in this sudden attack of the lion he did not panic for a moment and confronted them with courage. Once, the lions almost turned the crocodile into their prey that suddenly their grip became lighter, he was released. He then shows his true power to the lions. The king of the jungle was also surprised to see that. Read this too   You must have been stunned for a moment after watching this video. However, animal fighting is so dangerous that you may be surprised for a moment. This video has been shared on Instagram from an account called lionsdaily_. Which has been watched by more than 6 thousand people so far.']


lion cubs----SP.COMMON

Sinkdar----SUS.NAME
