
['Sleepless nights as leopard strays into parts of Kota\nKOTA: Over 2.50 lakh residents in around 40 colonies spanning from Nanta to Mala Road, railway station, Army cantonment, Rangbadi and Saraswati Colony areas of Kota city have been forced to lead restless days and sleepless nights. They are terrified that a leopard that strayed into the area will attack their cattle anytime. The administration and forest department are now planning to write to senior officers to send team of experts to trap and tranquilize the animal. More than eight teams have been deployed round-the-clock in rotation to trace the big cat and tranquilise it.The leopard’s movement on intervening night of Saturday and Sunday was traced at around 2am in Roteda village and it allegedly killed an unhealthy calf on Roteda Road but the forest department officials and doctor have not confirmed this. The panther does not kill an unhealthy or weak animal but it looks for an animal of sound health for its hunt and with its sharp angled cranial teeth, punctures the cord of the prey. This is not so with the carcass of the killed calf, said a forest department official claiming the calf was killed by a hyena . The animal was on Sunday morning reportedly spotted in Saraswati Colony but tracking and tranquilising it remains a challenge, he added.The leopard was last spotted on Friday morning at water point in army area following which forest team along with the animal husbandry were deployed at a distance from water point but the leopard, on noticing the vehicle, returned into the forest.Additional district magistrate Vasudev Malawat on Saturday presided over a meeting with army, forest, police and administrative officials to review the operation to trace and tranquilise the leopard. Malawat directed the forest department to constitute three extra teams of expert doctors, extra gun and equipment to tranquilise the leopard.Only one-man tranquiliser team of Dr Akhlish Pandey is available currently and the doctor has to be alert round-the-clock which is not possible for a single person, DFO, Kota, Jodhraj Singh said. The forest department, following the directions by district collector and Malawat, is mulling to write to senior officers and to talk to them to provide extra teams of doctors and experts to track and tranquilise the leopard, he added. Three cages to trap the animal are already positioned in Army area and one more cage was placed in railway workshop area to trap the animal, the DFO said.']


leopard----SP.COMMON

Kota----LOC.DISTRICT

2.50 lakh----VALUE

leopard----SP.COMMON

forest department----AUTH.MISC

leopard----SP.COMMON

2am----TIME

Roteda village----LOC.EXACT

Roteda Road----LOC.EXACT

gun----ITEM

equipment----ITEM
