
['[WATCH] Video of unknown miscreants chasing blackbucks on highway goes viral, netizens demand action\nVideo of miscreants chasing black bucks on highway goes viral Photo : Twitter Delhi: A video of an unknown vehicle chasing two blackbucks in the middle of a highway that has surfaced on the internet on Tuesday has been receiving flaks from the netizens. The video which has gone viral on social media platforms was initially shared by one Milind Pariwakam and then reposted by Indian Forest Service Officer Susanta Nanda on his twitter handle. In the now-viral video, two blackbucks could be seen chased by an unknown vehicle in broad daylight and in the middle of a highway road. However, the exact location and other details of the video are yet to be known. Related News Viral video of lioness putting up with feisty cubs shows mothers and patience go hand-in-hand “This driver must be crazy chasing blackbucks in their own territory. Driving wild animals amount to hunting under Wildlife Protection Act, punishable with a imprisonment of 3 yrs, which may extend to 7 years,” said IFS Susanta Nanda in his post. “Anyone knowing the details of the driver?” asked the IFS. This driver must be crazy chasing black bucks in their own territory. Driving wild animals amount to hunting under… t.co/JpZ3OEKYI2 — ANI (@ANI) Jun 21, 2022 “Another instance of unsafe road building for humans and wildlife. Plus the person who took this video is guilty of the offense of hunting under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. He should not have chased the blackbucks,” wrote Milind Pariwakam while sharing the video of the vehicle chasing the blackbucks. As soon as the video was shared by the IFS, netizens criticised inhumane act of the vehicle occupants and demand action against them while others suggested measures that could not adopted by the concerned authorities to prevent wild animals from such type of atrocities. @susantananda3 @MilindPariwakam Black bucks have been included as highly endangered species under the wildlife prot… t.co/pSsA0ByJoI — ANI (@ANI) Jun 21, 2022 Laws for blackbucks in India Blackbucks are protected animals under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Act since 1972. Tiger, leopard, elephant, pangolin, monitor lizards, pythons fall in the same category, as per a report by The Hindu. In 2008, they were declared ‘Near Threatened’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), but in 2017, were moved to the category of ‘Least Concern’. According to the PETA, blackbucks are an “extremely vulnerable species”, on the “endangered list in India, and afforded the highest protection under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972”, added The Hindu report. Blackbucks or the Indian Antelope are native to India and Nepal. In India, they are found across Gujarat, Maharastra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and parts of Andhra Pradesh.']


blackbucks----SP.COMMON

blackbucks----SP.SPECIFIC

Tuesday----DATE

Indian Forest Service Officer----OFF.DESIG

Susanta Nanda----OFF.NAME

lioness----SP.COMMON
