
['Stuff of nightmares: Woman finds python eating a rat inside her toilet bowl\nJanna Engler | Photo Credit: Twitter Key Highlights Engler closed the bathroom door and blocked all gaps with towels in order to prevent any more snakes or rodents from entering While Engler was absolutely terrified, her son was fascinated by the rare sight A woman from Cairns, Australia got the shock of her life after finding a python strangling and eating a rat inside her toilet bowl. Janna Engler, who happens to be a pastry chef, was up early at 4 am to begin work when she stumbled upon two rodents and the reptile in her toilet. The snake was attacking one of the rats while the other managed to run away, Engler told nine.com.au. After the initial shock wore off, Engler rushed to find her son, who was sleeping in his bedroom. While Engler was absolutely terrified, her son was fascinated by the rare sight. "He was fascinated by it because you could really see the snake eating the rat, it was right in front of us and it didn\'t seem to mind us watching," said Engler. She even took a picture of the snake and the rat, which was later shared on social media by several news outlets. Engler closed the bathroom door and blocked all gaps with towels in order to prevent any more snakes or rodents from entering. When she returned from work, the snake had disappeared but the dead rodent was still inside the bowl. When a snake catcher arrived at Engler’s residence, he couldn’t find the snake and said it had most likely travelled out through the water pipes. But the following day, Engler noticed a snake just outside her house and immediately alerted her landlord. "I texted my landlord and asked him if this is normal because I have never seen anything like that before," she said. Last week, another woman from Cairns found two snakes in her toilet on two consecutive days. She quickly alerted Cairns Snake Removals after which Dave Walton relocated the reptile. The rescue team took to Facebook to share pictures of the giant snake, which had managed to come out of the toilet and onto the basin.']


python----SP.COMMON

rat----SP.COMMON

Cairns----LOC.DISTRICT

python----SP.COMMON

4 am----TIME

rodents----SP.COMMON
