
['Watch Live Video of Tiger-Tigress Fight in Ranthambore: Attacking Each Other for Prey\n16/June/22:- News Update: The world-famous Ranthambore National Park has always fascinated tourists. Due to the rapidly growing tiger population here, tourists are getting wildlife sightings easily. On the other hand, due to the increase in the clan, the conflict between the tigers has intensified. Sometimes for territory and sometimes for prey tigers and tigresses are seen fighting with each other in the Ranthambore National Park. <<-Video By Bhaskar: A similar sight was captured in the cameras of tourists on Wednesday morning as well. When a tiger and a tigress were seen attacking each other to eat a sambar in zone number 2 of the National Park. First both of them hunted sambar to fill their stomach. After this, Tiger T-120 Warrior and Tigress T-84 Arrowhead attacked each other to eat hunted prey. They jumped and swung each other with a roar. But the tigress could not stand in front of the tiger and conceded defeat and sat down. The young tiger of Ranthambore is a warrior The age of Tigress T-84 Arrowhead is 13 years, while the age of Tiger T-120 Warrior is close to 8 years. The warrior is the young tiger of Ranthambore. The warrior has also clashed with tigress T-19 Krishna earlier. 77 tigers and cubs living in Ranthambore Tourists who came to visit the Ranthambore National Park captured the fight of both of them on camera. At present, there are 77 tigers-tigresses and cubs in Ranthambore. Due to the increase in the number, cases of the tiger-tigress fight are coming to the fore. Some time ago, photos of T-86, T-120, T-121 and T-123 four tigers were captured in the trap cameras of the Forest Department in the Manduk forest area. Due to the increasing number of young tigers, old tigers are now leaving their area and looking for territories in other areas. Comments comments']


Tiger----SP.COMMON

Tigress----SP.COMMON

Ranthambore----LOC.EXACT

Ranthambore National Park----LOC.EXACT

Wednesday----DATE

morning----TIME

tiger----SP.COMMON

tigress----SP.COMMON

Tiger T-120 Warrior----SP.SPECIFIC

Tigress T-84 Arrowhead----SP.SPECIFIC

Ranthambore----LOC.EXACT
