
['2 elephants poached for tusks\nJoda: Two elephants were reportedly poached for their tusks in Champua forest range of Keonjhar district Sunday. The incident highlights that poachers are active in the forest range. It has also exposed the chinks in the armour of the forest department. According to reports, Joda forester Peon Nayak received information about two elephant carcasses in Baitarani reserve forest. Nayak along with several other officials rushed to the spot. An elephant, aged 22 years, was found dead in Gurubeda forest while a few metres away lay another carcass – that of a 20-year-old female elephant. The forester said that the cause for the death of the elephants was not clear, but their tusks were missing. “Tusks and trunks of the two elephants were cut away. The preliminary investigation points to poaching,” he added. A herd of five elephants used to stay in this reserve forest. The forest department used to keep tabs on their movement. Sunday, a patrolling party was in the area and spotted the dead elephants. On the other hand, the two elephants were believed to have come from other forests, because the five elephants in the forest are safe, it was said. Significantly, a mining firm is in operation a few yards away from the spot where the elephant carcasses were found. The mining firm has been using bright lights, big machines and high powered explosives while extracting minerals. Due to mining operations, elephants feel unsafe and keep on moving from one place to another. The forest department is yet to ascertain if the elephants have died due to electrocution or poisoning. Assistant conservator of forest Ashok Samal, divisional forest officer Santosh Joshi, Champua forester Kashinath Hembram started an investigation into the elephant casualties. Forester Peon Nayak said the post-mortem of the carcass will be conducted Monday. PNN']


2----QTY

elephants----SP.COMMON

poached----CRIME.CAT

elephants----SP.COMMON

poached----CRIME.CAT

Champua forest range----LOC.EXACT

Sunday----DATE

forester----OFF.DESIG

Peon Nayak----OFF.NAME

received information----DETECTION_METHOD

elephant----SP.COMMON

carcasses----ITEM

elephant----SP.COMMON

Gurubeda forest----LOC.EXACT

carcass----ITEM

post-mortem of the carcass----OUTCOME
