
['Jaipur: Calling the shooter to save the goat and shooting the stray dog, 3 people died on the spot … Animal lovers angry\nThe capital is Jaipur (Jaipur) The shameful incident of shooting a dog by calling a sharp shooter has come to light in Benad village. Four dogs were mercilessly shot at the beetle, killing three on the spot and a fourth is currently seriously injured. According to reports, a gunman shot four street dogs from a distance. (Street dog) Shots. Bullets there (Sharp shooter) Hearing the sound of walking, the people of the area rushed to the spot. The injured dog was then taken to hospital with the help of an NGO. The locals filed a case with the police station demanding action against the accused, after which the police filed a case and assured to take appropriate action. After the incident, locals claimed that a man living in the village called the gunman and killed the dog. People said that the man was threatening the life of his goat from a dog roaming in the village. The bullet-riddled bodies of all three dogs were found It is learned that on Wednesday afternoon, the people of the area suddenly heard the sound of gunfire and later saw a dog shot and its body lying there. People said that in a short period of time, four dogs were shot dead, including the bodies of three dogs were found from different places and bullet casings were also found on their bodies. Harmida police officer Mangilal Bishnoi said the bodies of three dogs were found with bullet casings. Police said no weapon was used in the killings and that the attacker was being investigated. Currently, the police have filed a case under the Animal Cruelty Act. Angry animal lovers Upon hearing the news of such brutality with the dogs, the animal lovers of the city reached the spot and protested. At the same time, the police of Harmada police station reached the spot and interrogated the locals. People said that an unidentified gunman was shooting at a dog wandering in an empty plot. Read this too   According to media reports, Maryam Abu Haidari, an animal activist working against animal cruelty, said in the incident that the manner in which innocent people were killed by calling a shooter was very sad. “We will protest until the culprits are arrested,” Haidari said.']


Benad village----LOC.EXACT

street dogs----SP.COMMON

filed a case with the police station----OUTCOME

filed a case and assured to take appropriate action----OUTCOME

bullet casings----ITEM
