
['Undercover Activist Reveals How A Lab Kept Monkeys In Metal Straps, Left Dogs & Cats To Bleed\nDisturbing images of monkeys trapped in metal harnesses and cats and dogs bleeding, have come forward from a German toxicology laboratory. The reported abuse took place at LPT Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology in Mienenbuttel, on the outskirts of Hamburg, according to German animal activist organisation Soko Tierschutz and Cruelty Free International. Trigger warning: Graphic images ahead Cruelty Free International The heart wrenching images and footage show monkeys in a row, strapped to metal brackets, some of their heads can be seen in restraints and it is visible that they are trying to escape. A beagle seems be to bleeding profusely. These images were captured by an undercover activist who worked at the facility. He claims that the animals there were kept in horrific conditions and tests were carried out on beagles, monkeys, cats and rabbits for various companies around the world. Cruelty Free International An undercover activist got a job at the research facility from December 2018 to March 2019, and says he witnessed testing on beagles, monkeys, cats and rabbits, carried out for companies throughout the world. Friedrich Mullen from Soko Tierschutz reportedly said, “The worst treatment was kept for the monkeys. The macaques breed of monkeys are small, relatively light primates, which are often used for animal experiments at LPT. They are kept in cramped conditions in small cages. Many of the animals have developed compulsive tendencies and are seen going round in circles.” Cruelty Free International The undercover activist claimed that the animals were treated violently by workers who were not trained animal caretakers. The cats are said to be given up to 13 injections per day by untrained professionals and left to suffer. ‘LPT is a family-owned contract-testing laboratory carrying out toxicity testing for pharmaceutical, industrial and agro-chemical companies from all over the world in order to meet the requirements of governments and regulatory authorities’, reports Daily Mail.   According to Cruelty Free International: \'Toxicity testing involves poisoning animals to see how much of a chemical or drug it takes to cause serious harm, in an attempt to measure what a "safe" dose for humans might be\'. \'Animals are injected with or made to eat or inhale increasing amounts of a substance to measure the toxic effects which can be severe and include vomiting, internal bleeding, respiratory distress, fever, weight loss, lethargy, skin problems, organ failure and even death. No anesthetics or pain relief are provided\'. Cruelty Free International The CEO of Cruelty Free International is calling for the laboratory to be closed. According to reports, German laws protecting animals from experiments need modification as they are not strict enough. The images are indeed horrifying and again bring to question the treatment of animals at the hands of humans.']


Monkeys----SP.COMMON

Dogs----SP.COMMON

Cats----SP.COMMON

monkeys----SP.COMMON

LPT Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology in Mienenbuttel----LOC.EXACT

monkeys----SP.COMMON
