Poachers apprehended with barking deer meat from Rangat Forest Area
News courtesy Andaman Sheekha ::       Port Blair, Nov 24: On 23/11/2020 at about 1230 hrs, the team of AFEVS unit consisting of Mr S P Roy Dy. Ranger, Mr Baiju M Nair Forester, Mr M Shabbir forest guard, Mr Basant Lall forest guard along with six mazdoors on a tip off went to Parnashala RF area, under Parnashala Panchayat & Range jurisdiction of Rangat & following the foot prints & some other identification marks which indicates illegal trespass into the RF by some unknown persons & the team hided in the RF to trap the suspected accused & about 1900 hrs the team detected four suspected persons carrying some cloth bags coming out of the reserved forest and the forest officials chased them & get hold of two suspects, out of four as other two of the suspects manage to flee from the spot taking the advantage of darkness and after a massive search of two hours one out of other two absconding suspect was able to traced out & the other suspect could not be traced out & as such three accused were arrested & brought to the Range office AFEVS unit alongwith the seized material (meat of barking deer). On further investigation/interrogation the names of the three arrested accused were disclosed as Mr. Dinesh Poddar, Mr. Shankar Ram and Mr. Sudhir Indwar, all resident of Parnashala village. Further they reveals that alongwith them other one person also went inside the RF at 0600 hrs on 23.11.2020 and the name of fourth absconding Co-accused was disclosed as Ram Mondal also a resident of Parnashala village and they hunted a barking deer, dressed & cut into pieces in the forest and put it in the cloth bags to carry. The weight of the venison recorded as 12 Kilograms by the investigating team. Since both the accused were caught red handed while trespassing the Reserved forest & hunting wild animal & as such they have been booked under the relevant sections of IFA 1927 & Wildlife Protection Act 1972 for committing an offence as per law & after following all codal formalities the accused along with seized materials and case related documents were handed over in original to Range Officer Rangat for further proceedings of the case Trespass into the Reserved forest without permission/valid documents is a punishable offence U/s 26 (1) (d) (i) of Indian Forest Act 1927 with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both, in addition to such compensation for damage done to the forest. The entire operation took place under the guidance of Mr. Vijay Kishen Forest Ranger and under overall direction & Supervision of Mr. Satya Prakash Singh, IFS Divisional Forest Officer, Middle Andaman Forest Division. Middle Andaman Forest Division has zero tolerance against any offence related to Wildlife or forest and other anti social activities which prevails in the Reserved Forest/Protected areas Hunting of wild animals specified in Schedule I or part II of Schedule II or possession of meat of any such animal or animal article, trophy or uncured trophy derived from such animal is a punishable offence U/s 51 (1) of wildlife protection Act 1972 with imprisonment for a term not less than three years but may extend to seven years and also with fine which shall not be less than Rs.10000/- & in case of second or subsequent offence imprisonment shall not be less than three years but may extend to seven years & also with a fine not less than Rs.25000/-.