
['Leopards prefer dogs over deers in Kerala, shocking revelation by experts\nTHRISSUR: Environmental scientists and veterinarians have concluded that stray dogs are one of the main reasons for presence of animals like wild boar, peacocks, snakes, wild elephants and especially leopards in farmlands in the hilly regions. Tigers love dogs more than pets like goats and calves. There are many reports of leopards coming to homes that has domestic dogs. The locals were alarmed when a leopard chased a pet dog at night in Karukutti area last week. For the past few years, the presence of leopards in populated areas have increased. Leopards have the ability to hide in human habitations without their knowledge. In hilly regions, they hide behind the bushes. As the numbers increased, more leopards began to reach populated areas. They prefer areas with less disturbances where more prey are available. It is said that they give birth in such places. According to the authorities, leopard presence is on the rise in the valleys of the Western Ghats, including Athirappilly, Malakappara, Chimney, Peechi and Vazhani. The Forest Department has recently appointed 17 veterinary doctors in all the districts in view of the conflict between wild animals and humans. Cage and other facilities for the care and protection of wildlife will soon be set up in the affected areas. Injured wild animals could be treated and then returned to forests. Special security must be provided for domestic dogs. Proper lighting should be ensured around the house at night. Bushes should be cleared, proper streetlights should be ensured on roads and vigilance committees must be enabled. The tiger cub, found inside an unoccupied house in Palakkad Ummini, which is being cared for at the Forest Veterinary Clinic in Akamala, is 28 days old. The neonatal care period was 28 days. No decision has been made to return it to the jungle. The cub is not old enough to eat solid food. The one-week-old tiger cub was brought to the clinic in a critical condition.It was reluctant to drink milk and suffered from diarrhea. Health was restored after 24 hours of care by doctors and attendants. Powerdered milk given to pets is provided to the cubs. The increasing presence of stray dogs is one of the reasons why leopards leave forest in search of food. It is easier for tigers to catch dogs than to catch wild deer. No need to run and catch the prey. Tigers may also like dog meat, said Dr. P. O. Namir, Biodiversity Researcher']


Leopards----SP.SPECIFIC

dogs----SP.COMMON

Kerala----LOC.STATE

Palakkad Ummini----LOC.EXACT
