
['WATCH: Leopard Rescued from Well in Odisha\'s Sambalpur Using a Wooden Ladder\nA team of Odisha Fire Service and Forest Department officials have successfully rescued a leopard who had fallen into a deep well in the state’s Sambalpur district. The swift action ensured that the animal was rescued unhurt and released back into the natural habitation. The videos of the rescue operation shared by the Forest Department on Twitter show the officials attempting to keep the animal at water level with help of a wooden plank and rope as they place a ladder into the well. Making balance on the wooden plank, the leopard uses the ladder to climb out of the well. One leopard has been safely rescued from a deep well At-Mushakata, PS-Rairakhole, Dist.-Sambalpur by Rairakhole Fire Service personnel in a joint operation with other agencies #OdishaFireService @CMO_Odisha @homeodisha @DGFS_HGs_CD pic.twitter.com/O4mnJJHUu5— OdishaFireServicesHGsCD (@OdishaFS_HGs_CD) June 8, 2022 Sharing the video through the office of Odisha Cheif Minister Naveen Patnaik lauded the efforts of the rescue team. “Commend the swift response of @OdishaFS_HGs_CD personnel and officials of @ForestDeptt who successfully rescued a leopard from a deep well in Rairakhol in #Sambalpur district. Appreciation for the timely operation which safely rescued the leopard” tweeted CMO Odisha Since being posted online on June 8, the video has received nearly three thousand views along with several replies hailing the efforts of the Fire Department. “A job well done,” wrote filmmaker Nilamadhab Panda reacting to the video. Watch other reactions here: https://twitter.com/joudeepak/status/1534501853295017986?s=20&t=2xRr-Pj70Lu-ZyL7RS5gig Good job— SANJAY KUMAR (@sanjaymallick02) June 8, 2022 In a similar operation last year, Odisha Fire Department officials had rescued a baby elephant from a 15-feet-deep well in the state’s Mayurbhanj district. The operation continued for over four hours as the team dug an elevated path to the well and allowed the elephant to move out. Many locals had gathered around the rescue sight to witness the operation and the successful evacuation of the elephant was received loud cheers from the ground. #WATCH | An elephant calf was rescued from a 15-feet deep well at a village in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha on Saturday."The calf fell into the well while it was roaming in the area on Friday night," said Rabi Narayan Mohanty, Range Officer, Deuli Forest Range. pic.twitter.com/TPIrWN52Ti — ANI (@ANI) April 10, 2021 The baby elephant was reportedly part of a herd that entered the Deuli Forest Range in Mayurbhanj from Jharkhand. The herd was passing through a village when the one-year-old calf accidentally fell into the open well Friday night. Forest Department was informed about the incident by local villagers after which a rescue team arrived to save the elephant. Read all the Latest News , Breaking News and IPL 2022 Live Updates here.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Rescued----CRIME.CAT

Odisha's----LOC.STATE

Sambalpur----LOC.DISTRICT

Odisha Fire Service----AUTH.SEIZE

Forest Department officials----AUTH.SEIZE

leopard----SP.COMMON

Sambalpur----LOC.DISTRICT

One----QTY

leopard----SP.COMMON

Rairakhole Fire Service personnel----AUTH.SEIZE

@OdishaFS_HGs_CD personnel----AUTH.SEIZE

leopard----SP.COMMON

elephant----SP.COMMON

calf----ITEM

Mayurbhanj----LOC.DISTRICT

Odisha----LOC.STATE

Saturday----DATE

Friday----DATE

night----TIME

herd that entered the Deuli Forest Range in Mayurbhanj from Jharkhand. The herd was passing through a village when the one-year-old calf accidentally fell into the open well Friday night. Forest Department was informed about the incident by local villagers after which a rescue team arrived to save the elephant. Read all the Latest News , Breaking News and IPL 2022 Live Updates here.----SUS.AFFIL
