
['Kolkata: Langur petrified by crackers and injured, rescued\nKOLKATA: A grey langur from Fatepur in the Garden Reach area that suffered severe injuries on its head and neck while escaping from the site of bursting crackers was rescued by the forest department on Diwali night. This was not the only case. The department received similar calls to rescue distressed langurs from the Ballygunge station and Rash Behari. However, both the terrified langurs managed to flee before forest officials could reach there to rescue them.Tapas Ghosh, a Fatepur resident, said, “The scared langur took shelter under a few rickshaws parked on the road. It was clearly injured and was lying motionless.” First, I cleared the area of curious onlookers so that the langur felt safe and then called the forest department, added Ghosh, an active associate of ‘Junglee’, a wildlife activists’ group.Ghosh said the forest department team reached the spot and with a net fitted with screw and phans kol (cage) netted the adult langur. “It was so scared and so badly injured that it could not even resist. Even in the net, it was lying motionless,” said Ashis Pal, a member of the rescue team.Raja Chatterjee, head of Junglee, said, “Diwali nights are a horror for animals. They don’t understand the festivities and assume that a catastrophe had befallen. It takes days to heal the trauma. I am sure that such massive increase of ambient noise levels and bursting of high-decibel crackers leave an indelible mark of trauma on their psyche.”In fact, Asish Pal, who rescued the langur, said, “We received a similar call about a terrified langur sitting at Ballygunge station. It was scared of the firecrackers, said the caller. We asked him to kindly inform the government railway police (GRP). We also got in touch with the GRP to ask them to clear the site of curious onlookers. But a little later, we heard that the monkey had moved elsewhere.”A commuter from Rash Behari called to alert us of another langur. In this case too, the langur managed to evade us and managed to move elsewhere.Ghosh said that Ranger of the rescue team, Manoj Joshi , was very prompt in his move and sent his team without delay. The rescue operation was completed by 11.30 pm on Sunday.']


Kolkata----LOC.STATE

Langur----SP.COMMON

grey langur----SP.SPECIFIC

Fatepur----LOC.EXACT

Garden Reach area----LOC.EXACT

rescued----CRIME.CAT

forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

Diwali night----DATE

GRP----AUTH.SEIZE

Ranger----OFF.DESIG

Manoj Joshi----OFF.NAME

11.30 pm----TIME

Sunday----DATE
