
['Top 10 Deadly Carnivorous Plants That Eat Insects and Animals Will Shock You\nCarnivorous plants are plants that eat insects and small animals. They have special glands that secrete digestive enzymes which help them to digest their prey. Carnivorous plants can also be called Predatory plants as they are after their prey. Quite fascinating? Isn’t it? Here are the 10 deadly Carnivorous plants that we are going to share with you. 1-Venus Flytrap: Venus Flytrap This carnivorous plant is scientifically known as (Dionaea muscipula). It has tiny hair that traps, capture, and digest insects. They can grow large enough to ensnare small lizards. These plants can be found in North and South Carolina. Overall their habitat is in North Carolina. 2- Slender Pitcher Plant: Slender Pitcher-Plant This carnivorous plant is scientifically known as Nepenthes gracilis. The Slender pitcher plant has pitcher-shaped leaves that can capture insects and then Eat them. These plants are widely spread in the Sunda region mainly in Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Sumatra and Thailand. 3- Cape-Sundew: Cape-Sundew This is one of the plants that can eat insects and is scientifically known as Drosera capensis, Cape-Sundew uses a sticky mucilage to trap and digest insects. It can be found in South Africa. They are easy to grow and propagate. 4- Round leaved Sundew: Roundleaf Sundew This carnivorous plant is scientifically known as Drosera rotundifolia. The Sticky gland-tipped hairs of the round leaf sundew, attract and digest insects. It is a flowering plant that grows in bogs, marshes and fens. These plants can be found in North America, Korea, Japan California, Mississippi and Alabama (from South America). 5- Waterwheel Plant: This Carnivorous plant is scientifically known as Aldrovanda vesiculosa. The waterwheel plant is an aquatic species and uses rapid snap traps to ensnare and digest small invertebrates. This plant has the capability of rapid movement. 6- Crimson Pitcher plant: Crimson pitcher plant This is one of the predatory plants that is scientifically known as Sarracenia leucophylla. Its carnivorous pitchers attract and digest insects. This plant is found in Southeastern U.S but it is easy to grow outside of this region. 7-Common Butterwort: Scientifically known as Pinguicula Vulgaris, Common butterwort employs sticky mucilage on the leaf surface to secure its prey. Purple blossoms appear atop a long stalk to help keep pollinators from their carnivorous leaves. 8: Cobra Lily: It is also known as the California pitcher plant or Cobra plant. The name is derived from its snake-like appearance as it has similarities with this deadly animal. It can be found in Northern California and Oregon. 9: Genlisea: It is also known as the Corkscrew Plant. It is found in Africa and Central and South America. The underwater leaves of this plant look like roots and are long and pale. It attracts and traps minute microfauna and it was suggested by Charles Darwin who was a biologist and geologist almost a century ago. 10: Drosophyllum Lusitanicum: This plant is branched and erect. It is a flowery plant and flowers are on top. It can be found in Portugal, Southwest Spain and northern Morocco. The seeds of this plant are pear-shaped. In appearance, it is similar to Drosera ad Byblis. Do you know there are some movies that show these deadly Carnivorous plants? Journey to The Earth and Jumanji are probably the most famous Hollywood movie that depicts these predatory plants. Although these plants mostly eat insects and animals, you never know when they will want to taste you. Have you seen any of these carnivorous plants in your life? Read More: 18 Survival Tips and Interesting facts that you need to know 5 Best Weight loss Drinks that can help you in Losing Weight Share this: Twitter Facebook ']


Carnivorous Plants----SP.COMMON

Venus----SP.SPECIFIC

Slender Pitcher Plant----SP.SPECIFIC

Slender Pitcher-Plant----SP.SPECIFIC

Cape-Sundew----SP.SPECIFIC

Cape-Sundew----SP.SPECIFIC

Round leaved Sundew----SP.SPECIFIC

Roundleaf Sundew----SP.SPECIFIC
