
["Marauding leopard released in Hoshiarpur forest\nCHANDIGARH: The marauding male leopard caught at Lamma Pind village in Jalandhar on Thursday evening did not finally make it to the Chhatbir zoo near Chandigarh. The feline, which injured six people as it stalked the alleys and backstreets for over than six hours before being caught, was released deep in the jungles of Hoshiarpur by a team of the Punjab Wildlife Preservation wing and the veterinary detachment from Chhatbir zoo at 3.10am on Friday.After the leopard was tranquilised and people told that it would be taken to Chhatbir zoo by a zoo veterinary team led Dr M P Singh, Punjab PCCF (Wildlife) Dr Kuldip Kumar gave the directions to get the animal examined in seclusion and, if found fit, released in a suitable habitat at the earliest.“'I acted under the prevalent guidelines available to free the leopard as he met all the conditions for rehabilitation. I have also instructed the field staff not to rush a captured leopard to Chhatbir. They have been told to first get the leopard examined for fitness at the district centres and determine the chances of rehabilitation in the wilderness,” Kumar told TOI.The successful tranquilisation and revival of the leopard was the 14th such rescue by the Chhatbir veterinary team since 2010. Earlier, the leopard rescue acts have inevitably ended in a series of deaths. “All the canines (teeth) were found intact of the Jalandhar leopard. It weighed 80 kgs and in peak health, according to the veterinary examination,” he added.This is the second leopard to be freed in the wilderness, after a successful rescue from a conflict situation. Earlier, a female leopard rescued from Kukanet village, about 10 km deep in the Shiwalik jungles of Dolbaha in Hoshiarpur, was rehabilitated on September 12, 2017. The female leopard spent a few days in a zoo lock-up before being set free in the Hoshiarpur jungles. Secrecy was maintained to avoid inflaming public opinion, which usually seeks life-imprisonment for such leopards on the ground that it can “attack humans again”.Wildlife biologist Vidya Athreya, who has conducted field studies on leopard-human conflict and has been an official consultant to the governments of India, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh, said, “The ministry of environment and forests guidelines say avoid setting up traps if the attacks on humans is accidental. The guidelines further state that if a leopard is in an open area surrounded by people, all attempts should be made to keep the crowd from approaching the animal, and the animal should be allowed to escape under the cover of darkness.”"]


leopard----SP.COMMON

Lamma Pind village----LOC.EXACT

Jalandhar----LOC.DISTRICT

Thursday----DATE

evening----TIME

Chhatbir zoo near Chandigarh----LOC.EXACT

Punjab Wildlife Preservation wing----AUTH.SEIZE

veterinary detachment----AUTH.SEIZE

Chhatbir zoo----LOC.EXACT

3.10am on----TIME

Friday.After----DATE

leopard----SP.COMMON

M P Singh----OFF.NAME

Punjab PCCF (Wildlife)----OFF.DESIG

Dr Kuldip Kumar----OFF.NAME

Chhatbir veterinary team----AUTH.SEIZE

Kukanet village----LOC.EXACT
