
["Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway: Leopard dies in road mishap, driver booked under Wildlife Protection Act\nleopard(file image) Mumbai: A Leopard died on the spot in an accident on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway. The accident occurred near Amboli village in Dahanu taluka on the highway. A car hit and killed a male leopard when it was trying to cross the road. Two people were injured in this accident. According to the forest department employees, the dead leopard was four years old. A Swift Dzire car, driven by one Harikumar Prajapati, aged 47, was reportedly speeding and ran over the wild cat. Prajapati is a resident of Sanjan in Gujarat. Also Read : WATCH - Leopard trapped in Thane's Korum Mall; forest department officials tranquilise it A large crowd gathered at the scene when the leopard fell on the road. Forest Department employees also reached the spot after receiving information. In the past few years, the man-animal conflict has increased manifold. Leopard entering into the private residence is everyday news. The main reasons behind this are poaching and the shortage of water. Highways have become even more dangerous for these animals. Forest officials also said that the leopard was hit at the right shoulder and the impact was so huge that the airbag of the driver blew up. Prajapati's wife sustained minor injuries while he has been booked under the Wildlife Protection Act. Leopard spotted in Thane's Korum Mall In another incident arising out of the man-animal conflict, a leopard was spotted at the popular Korum Mall and the CCTV footage from last night shows the big cat roaming across the building. The leopard was inside the basement of Hotel Sarkar, which is located behind the mall. When CCTV footage was found, a team started searching for the animal and caught him after a six-hour operation. This mall is centrally located on the highway and a leopard escaping into the high population density areas can be a major concern."]


Leopard----SP.COMMON

booked under Wildlife Protection Act
----OUTCOME

Leopard----SP.COMMON

Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway----LOC.EXACT

Amboli village in Dahanu taluka----LOC.EXACT

car----TRANSPORT_MODE

leopard----SP.COMMON

Swift Dzire car----TRANSPORT_MODE

Harikumar Prajapati----SUS.NAME

47----SUS.AGE

Sanjan----SUS.LOC

Leopard----SP.COMMON

Korum Mall----LOC.EXACT

leopard----SP.SPECIFIC

searching----DETECTION_METHOD
