
['Leopard hunted by deer after being saved from crocodile, watch this shocking video\nLeopard was hunted by a crocodile, then a deer child Image Credit source: Instagram There is no dearth of predatory animals in the forest. Lions, tigers and leopards are such animals, if any other animal falls on their feet, then it proves to be the last day of its life. Especially deer come under the category of gentle animals and the animals are the most hunted here in the forest. Apart from this, if we talk about crocodiles, the way lions are called the king of the jungle, in the same way crocodiles are also called the king of water. If they are under water, then they can make even the biggest animals their prey, then what about the small animals. Connect with animals on social media Videos often go viral ,Viral Videos), some of which are quite surprising. One such shocking video is becoming very viral nowadays, in which a deer child first becomes a victim of crocodile attack and then leopard. In the video you can see how a giant crocodile makes its prey outside the water and then takes it inside the water. Although the deer was lucky enough to survive the crocodile attack and get out of the falling water, little did he know that another big trouble awaits him outside. In fact, as soon as it comes out of the water, a leopard breaks down on the child of the poor deer, who is already ambushing behind the bush for the deer. Seeing this sight, you will definitely remember the saying that ‘Stuck on the palms that fell from the sky’. Watch Video: This surprising video has been shared on the social media platform Instagram with the ID name wildmaofficial, which has got more than 3 lakh views so far, while thousands of people have also liked the video. At the same time, people have given different types of reactions after watching the video. read this also: To avoid the attack of sheep, a man blew his mind, watching the viral video, he would say ‘Gajab Hai Yeh Toh’ read this also: VIDEO: When a man riding a bike met a lioness, then he got a shocking sight']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

deer----SP.COMMON

crocodile----SP.COMMON

Leopard----SP.COMMON
