
['Leopard saved from snare may take weeks to recover\nSnare had penetrated muscle and was lodged in the bone, says vet; topical dressing of the injury done and animal put on antibiotics The leopard was sedated to remove the metal snare from its foreleg; (right) the vets take an X-ray of the injured leg While the leopard, who had suffered serious injuries due to a snare stuck around its left leg on Wednesday was rescued, it has now come to light that it has lost two nails from its left leg. The snare injury may take another two weeks to heal. One of the three veterinarians who operated on the leopard told mid-day that as the wound is deep, it will take more time to heal. Dr Shailesh Pethe, assistant commissioner (wildlife) at SGNP, said, “The leopard’s condition was really bad when it was brought in. Its left leg was badly swollen, owing to being caught in the snare.” The challenge before the veterinarians was to safely remove the snare from its foreleg, for which the leopard had to be sedated. The snare had penetrated the muscle and was lodged in the bone, because of which the animal was in extreme pain. To know the extent of the injury, an X-ray was taken. “The team of doctors including senior veterinarian Dr C C Vakankar, Dr Pradnya Pethe and myself started the operation and the snare was removed. When we closely examined it, the cut was very deep, but luckily the bone was not fractured. Two of the nails from its left leg were broken and one is in such a bad state that we fear, we may lose that too. The blood report showed anaemia but luckily it’s kidney and liver are in good shape,” Pethe said. Topical dressing of the injury is being done and the animal given antibiotics. The leopard has also started consuming food. It is said that at least two weeks will be required for the healing, post which, any decision regarding the release of the animal can be taken. Superintendent of he Tiger and Lion Safari and Range Forest Officer (RFO) Vijay Barabde along with the animal keepers are closely monitoring the health of the leopard. “At present, the leopard has been kept in a treatment cage and our team is keeping a close watch on its health. We are taking all necessary care as advised by the vets,” Barabde said.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

X-ray----OUTCOME

leopard----SP.COMMON

X-ray----OUTCOME

Dr C C Vakankar----OFF.NAME

Dr----OFF.DESIG

Pradnya Pethe----OFF.NAME
