
["Leopard rescued from open well, IFS officer calls it 'Mohenjo Daro Harappan Technology'\nAgencies The clip has managed to garner more than 38,000 views on Twitter.   Nanda also noted that such incidents will reduce if wells around animal habitats are closed. He also took a dig at the old technique of rescuing the leopard and called it the “Mohenjo Daro Harappan technology”. “Another day. Another rescue of a leopard from open well using the  The clip has managed to garner more than 38,000 views on Twitter. Forest department officials earned plaudits online for the rescue. Some users also urged covering open wells and avoiding risk for children and wildlife. Indian Forest Service officer Susanta Nanda on Saturday shared a clip that showed a leopard being lifted on top of a lowered cot. As the cot reaches the top of the well, the big cat swiftly climbs up and escapes with a growl.Nanda also noted that such incidents will reduce if wells around animal habitats are closed. He also took a dig at the old technique of rescuing the leopard and called it the “Mohenjo Daro Harappan technology”. “Another day. Another rescue of a leopard from open well using the Mohenjo Daro Harappan technology. This will stop only when we close the open wells around animal habitat,” said Nanda in the caption of the clip.The clip has managed to garner more than 38,000 views on Twitter. Forest department officials earned plaudits online for the rescue. Some users also urged covering open wells and avoiding risk for children and wildlife. Disclaimer Statement: This content is authored by an external agency. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors/ entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times (ET). ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated, and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein. ... more less"]


Leopard----SP.COMMON
