
["Spine-Chilling Video Shows Leopard Pouncing On A Dog In Mumbai, It Miraculously Escapes\nIn a scary incident, a leopard attacked two dogs near Seepz area in Mumbai's Andheri (East), in the wee hours of Monday. The horrifying incident triggered panic among residents.  One of the attacks that took place near the Telecom Power gate, opposite Seepz, has been captured on camera. The CCTV footage shows the big cat pouncing on a dog and pinning him down, grabbing it by the scruff. Somehow, the dog manages to escape; it seemingly felt either extremely brave or extremely offended by the attack, because instead of running in the opposite direction, it started running behind the leopard! According to Times Of India, the second attack took place somewhere around the same area, but the details are still unknown. Security personnel, who witnessed the incident made a loud noise to scare the leopard and also reported the incident to the forest department. Watch the video here: “The guard said he thumped his cabin door loudly to scare the leopard away,” said the employee who asked not to be identified, according to Times Of India. “Frightened, the leopard let go of the dog and ran,” he added. Later, a call was also made to the helpline of an NGO, Awaaz - Voice of Stray Animals, and its founder, Amit Pathak, said, “The dogs have been administered first aid.” Forest officer Santosh Kank also confirmed that a leopard had been sighted in the early hours of Monday. “We have set up camera traps in case the leopard revisits. Also, we have started the night patrol in the area,” said Kank. Pawan Sharma of Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare, who works closely with the forest authorities said, that since the leopard was captured on one of the cameras, it might help the forest department identify it using the database. Picture Courtesy: Twitter “People often harbour misconceptions that the leopard could return to attack humans,” Sharma said. In another spine-chilling incident that took place in Amreli, Gujarat, a leopard sneaked in on a black dog, sleeping outside what looks like its owner’s house. The leopard made calm and calculated moves, being as quiet as possible, not letting the prey know of its presence - and it succeeded. It pounced on the dog that awoke instantly and ran for its life. The leopard was taken aback by the resistance but was unwilling to let go of its game and ran after the dog. Watch the video here: Both the videos are quite horrifying to watch and we hope that the dogs ran with all their might, to safety."]


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Dog----SP.COMMON

Mumbai----LOC.CITY

leopard----SP.COMMON

dogs----SP.COMMON

Seepz area in Mumbai's Andheri (East----LOC.EXACT

wee hours----TIME

Monday----DATE
