
['Tragic video: Two tigers were seen playing dangerously, everyone was surprised to see the video\nDifferent types of videos are often viral on social media.Viral video), Which also includes videos related to animals Sometimes funny videos of dogs and cats make people laugh and sometimes the way of hunting animals like lions and tigers surprises people. However, if we talk about tigers, they are considered the second most dangerous animal in the world after lions, not only for humans, but also for a variety of wild animals. It is also said that the tiger (Tiger) Are aggressive in nature, so they cannot stay in flocks like lions. Seeing each other, they started fighting with each other. Such a video is going viral on social media these days, which is quite surprising. In this video, two tigers are seen playing dangerously, as if they are fighting with each other. In the video you can see how one tiger runs and jumps on another tiger. Then they both shake their legs and jump into the air. The scene was like a movie scene. Then one of the tigers fell to the ground and the other came to attack him. Although both are playing without fighting with each other. Now that there are animals, their style of play is also different from ours. So looking at us, it seems that they are not playing, they are fighting. This video is said to be of Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. Watch the video: Just a decade ago, watching these siblings play in the loop, it was thought to wipe out the entire tiger population of the Tiger Reserve. It now has a healthy population of 45/50 adults and 20/25 cubs. The story of the resilience of our tiger conservation. VC: MP Tiger Foundation pic.twitter.com/Ce7U30qjv9 – Sushant Nanda IFS (ant susantananda3) June 13, 2022 Read this too   IFS officer Sushant Nanda shared the video on his Twitter handle and wrote in the caption that the entire tiger population of this tiger reserve was believed to be extinct just a decade ago, but now it has 45-50 adults and 20 people. -25 adults. The cubs have a healthy population. This video of just 20 seconds has been viewed more than 1 lakh times so far, where thousands of people have liked the video and given different responses.']


Sushant Nanda----OFF.NAME

IFS----OFF.DESIG
