
['Awful! You will be surprised to see the video of a deer being swallowed alive\nSnakes are found all over the world, of which King Cobra is considered to be the most dangerous. This creature is said to be sure to die if it bites someone, but did you know that there is a species of snake in the forest that is very large (Wildlife video)The animal has the ability to swallow. In fact, we are talking about a python that swallows any animal alive. Nowadays we have seen such a video. Where a python starts trying to grab a deer and swallow it. Everyone is surprised to see that. For your information, we would like to inform you that according to National Geographic, Python is considered as one of the largest snakes in the world. The most interesting thing about the dragon is that it continues to kill its prey until it swallows its prey completely. In this video, the dragon is eating the deer in the same way. Watch the video here In the video you can see that a dragon has caught a deer in a forest. The dragon is trying to swallow the deer. But the deer also did not give up, repeatedly hitting the face and trying to push the dragon back. In this situation, the dragon is trying to break the body of the deer by holding its prey in its lap so that it can easily swallow the deer. At the same time another user wrote, ‘Their ability to digest is very good. They easily digest anything. Another said about the dragon, it seems he has been hungry for the last many lives. This video has been shared on Instagram from an account called Animal Shorts. People are also asking a lot of questions in the comments about the video. Most people are asking the same question whether this python will digest the whole deer. Commenting on the video, one user wrote, ‘Even if I was a little hungry, I couldn’t swallow the whole thing. Some are praising the food chain of animals, while others are questioning the forest food system. Another user said about the dragon, it seems he has been hungry for the last many lives. About Python one user said that their digestive power is very good. They easily digest anything. Read more: God! The 53-year-old woman has built an amazing body, sweating in the gym for 4 hours every day']


deer----SP.COMMON
