
['Two chinkaras killed in Pune’s Indapur, 3 booked\nPune: Two chinkara deer also known as Indian gazelle were found killed in Kadbanwadi forest area of Indapur tehsil in Maharashtra’s Pune district, officials said on Monday. According to the forest authorities, villagers saw and filmed unidentified hunters shooting the protected species with an air gun while passing through the protected area in their vehicles on Saturday. Officials said some villagers had seen three persons in a vehicle kill a Chinakara deer with their airgun, while another eyewitness saw the second Chinkara being shot around 100 metres from the spot of the first kill. Indpur Taluka Chinkara Bachaon Abhiyan President Bhajandas Pawar said that his organisation through citizens movement had been trying its level best to protect the species from hunting and extinction. Indapur Taluka Range forest officer Ajit Suryavanshi said an FIR has been lodged against three unknown people captured in a video shot by a villager. “We are investigating the case and the details are being sought for further action,” said Suryavanshi. Rahul Patil , Deputy Conservator of Forests said “ We have lodged a case against three persons on charges of poaching Chinkaras and an FIR has been lodged against them and investigation is on ,” he said. Though the incident took place under Indapur police division, the forest department has lodged an FIR on the powers vested by the state The Indian gazelle (Gazella bennettii), is native to the Indian subcontinent and is a threatened species, hunted for meat. Meanwhile, an alert has been sounded in the area and villagers have been told to keep a close eye on poachers and inform the police or the forest department in case of any suspicious activity. Indapur constituency is represented by state forest minister Dattatreya Bharne.']


Two----QTY

chinkaras----SP.SPECIFIC

Pune----LOC.CITY

Indapur----LOC.CITY

3----SUS.NUMBER

Two----QTY

chinkara deer----SP.SPECIFIC

Indian gazelle----SP.COMMON

Kadbanwadi forest area----LOC.EXACT

Pune----LOC.DISTRICT

hunters----SUS.AFFIL

Saturday----DATE

Chinakara deer----SP.SPECIFIC

FIR has been lodged----OUTCOME

three----SUS.NUMBER

three----SUS.NUMBER

poaching----CRIME.CAT

Chinkaras----SP.SPECIFIC
