
['Elephant killed in shootout between guards & smugglers\nDIBRUGARH: An elephant was killed in a crossfire between forest guards and timber smugglers at Joypur wildlife range in Dihing Patkai National Park in upper Assam\'s Dibrugarh district on Sunday. Sources said the incident that came to light on Tuesday when forest guards found the carcass of the elephat inside the dense forest on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border.Confirming the incident, Dibrugarh divisional forest officer ( DFO ) Pradipta Baruah on Wednesday said the elephant was brought by smugglers to transport illegally felled logs.“A team of forest guards rushed to the area as soon as we got information that timber smugglers were slashing trees inside the forest by using machines. On seeing the guards, the smugglers opened fire. The forest guards fired back. In the crossfire, the elephant was hit by bullets and died where it fell. No one from our side was injured. The smugglers managed to flee under the cover of thick forest,” Baruah said.A postmortem of the elephant was conducted on Tuesday according to the SOP after which the caracass was disposed of. The forest official said the smugglers had come from Arunachal Pradesh and even cadres of the NSCN could be involved."The timber smugglers had come from Arunachal side and they were using big machines to cut the trees. We suspect the involvement of the NSCN. We regularly patrol the area but the smugglers sneak in at night to fell trees," he added.Mridu Paban Phukan, a local environmentalist, said that for many years smugglers from Arunachal Pradesh have been involved in illegal tree felling and smuggling of timber inside the Joypur wildlife range which extends beyond the Assam-Arunachal border. "Many a times, the matter was brought to notice of the district administration but nothing has been done to resolve the issue. The timber smugglers brazenly enter the forest area of Assam in broad daylight with machines to cut the trees. Many illegal saw mills are functioning on the Assam-Arunachal border," he alleged.']


Elephant----SP.COMMON

killed----CRIME.CAT

elephant----SP.COMMON

killed----CRIME.CAT

forest guards----AUTH.SEIZE

Joypur wildlife range in Dihing Patkai National Park----LOC.EXACT

Assam's----LOC.STATE

Dibrugarh----LOC.DISTRICT

Sunday----DATE

carcass----ITEM

divisional forest officer ( DFO )----OFF.DESIG

Pradipta Baruah----OFF.NAME

postmortem of the elephant was conducted----OUTCOME
