
['38 animals killed on roads, drivers cautioned now\nCHANDIGARH: Conflict with humans has killed 38 animals on the city roads in one year. The UT wildlife department will put up signs at 16 sites of these wild encounters to caution commuters.The department also plans to limit the speed at these spots and install speed-breakers to save the intruding animals from being run over. Official data suggests that Nilgais were the biggest casualty of the human-animal conflict in 2018. Of the 38 animals that died, 16 were of this species, followed by 14 peacocks, 5 sambhars, 2 porcupines, and an owl.Most encounter have occurred is the sectors adjoining the Sukhna, Kansal, and Nepli reserve forests near the Punjab and Haryana high court, Vidhan Sabha, Sectors 2, 4 and 6. In these cases, eight animals died on the road adjoining the high court. UT deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Abdul Qayum said: “Based on this study, we have prepared a report and plotted the vulnerable spots on a map.”He said: “We have put up caution signs at some of these points where people run into deer and sambhars generally inside the city. Even though we have fenced most of the forest boundaries, we do have left some openings for the animals to cross into the connecting forests, since animals can’t be restricted.”For capping the speed limit, the forest department has requested the traffic authorities already. It has asked the municipal corporation to build speed-breakers at these points to prevent collisions with stray animals.”Citing the example of a sambar that had strayed deep into city on February 4 and died later, DCF Qayum said: “The stag that strayed into Sector 22 seems to have died of internal injuries as well as the scare caused by a crowd of people and vehicles. Had the public cleared out of its way during the conflict, the animal might have survived.”In January, a frightened and injured stag ran wild in the city for about three hours, leaving two people with minor injuries, shattering a car window, and throwing traffic out of gear on the high court road. It strayed into Sectors 19, 21, and 20 before being captured.']


UT wildlife department----AUTH.SEIZE
