
['Youth goes missing, croc attack suspected\nDandeli: A 24-year-old man went missing while freshening himself up on the banks of the Kali River in Dandeli. According to eyewitnesses in the area, he was pulled into the river by a crocodile. This is the third such incident in the previous three months.Activists allege that the repeated attacks are the result of waste dumping by meat traders and habitat loss caused by engineering work such as installing jackquels and drilling for irrigation/drinking water projects.Arshad Khan Raichur, a fabricator, came near the river in Patel Nagar area of the industrial town on Monday evening to wash his hands, face, and legs to freshen up. A crocodile pounced on him when he crouched to collect water in his hands, according to a few eyewitnesses who were there at the scene. The reptile dragged him into the water and after that he is nowhere to be seen.Kali river in Dandeli is home to several hundred crocodiles, and a croc park was recently opened by the tourism and public works departments. According to Rahul Bavaji, a wildlife conservationist, the park has at least 250 alligators.Bavaji said Dandeli is losing croc habitat owing to irrigation and drinking water projects. Workers were seen drilling near the river and installing jakquels and pipelines in areas where crocodiles are known to reside. Furthermore, butchers are dumping meat waste - chicken, mutton, and beef - in some areas, causing crocodiles to change their habitat and behaviour. People come to these sites to wash their clothes, bathe, and play. Crocodiles normally hunt on them since they are easy prey.A 14-year-old boy was attacked by a crocodile about two months ago, and his wounded hand had to be amputated. A man was killed in another incident. Vinay Bhat, range forest officer (RFO) said people suspected a crocodile attack in the incident, but this can only be confirmed after the missing youth is found. With the assistance of experts, the forest, police, and fire departments launched a search operation and asked the Supa dam authorities not to release water.']


croc----SP.COMMON

attack----CRIME.CAT

Dandeli----LOC.DISTRICT

24----SUS.AGE

man----SUS.GENDER

Dandeli----LOC.DISTRICT

crocodile----SP.COMMON

Monday----DATE

evening----TIME

crocodile----SP.SPECIFIC

search operation----DETECTION_METHOD
