
['500 pigeons caught, released in forest\nHyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) team caught 500 pigeons at the historic Moazamjahi market and transported the birds to Srisailam forest. The decision to shift the birds stems from the number of complaints from traders as well as citizens, say officials. The Moazamjahi market is undergoing restoration and 70% of the works have been completed. The pigeons which are in hundreds were defacing the dome and also posing a danger to the health of traders and people who come to shop at the market. "Pigeons can be entertaining to watch, but their droppings can cause damage to buildings and spread diseases to people and other animals. You can prevent this from happening, namely through deterrents and humane population control," according to wikihow.com. Feeding pigeons is prohibited in all GHMC parks and gardens. Veterinary department officials seized corn used to feed birds from sellers on Friday. "We are trying to catch the remaining birds and clear the problem," says Khairatabad Zone deputy director Wilson. He further added, "There will be respiratory problems to children and senior citizens with these pigeons." He suggested commuters not to feed food for pigeons in market areas. Dr K Narasimhulu, former Professor of Medicine and Swine Flu specialist at Gandhi Hospital, said, "Feeding pigeons can be detrimental to health. Close proximity to pigeons can lead to breathlessness and fever." Dr Ram, pulmonologist says, "The dust from feathers and pigeon droppings does a lot of harm. It could afflict people with zoonoses." Raghuveer, a social activist, says, "Boards have been set up at several parks in the city by the GHMC informing people not to feed pigeons but there is no awareness. The act of kindness can prove costly but people do not realize." What is worrisome is the fact that there is no cure and the patient\'s life could only be extended. Close proximity to birds causes hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Doctors say that the number of cases of hypersensitivity pneumonitis is growing; it is one of the several forms of pulmonary fibrosis. Raj Kiran, a bird watcher, says, "With the increase in number of pigeons in the city, other species of birds are finding it difficult, it is a battle for space." According to rough estimates, there are close to one lakh pigeons in the city. People feed the birds with copious amounts of grain at Nampally, Tank Bund, Peerzadiguda, Sindhi Colony, Gudimalkapur and several other areas in the city.']


500----QTY

pigeons----SP.COMMON

Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation----AUTH.SEIZE

GHMC----AUTH.SEIZE

500----QTY

pigeons----SP.COMMON

Moazamjahi market----LOC.EXACT

Srisailam forest----LOC.EXACT

Friday----DATE
