
['Jammu and Kashmir: Leopard terror in Jammu and Kashmir, 3 children still dead, orders issued to eradicate them\nBaramulla District of Jammu and Kashmir (Baramulla of Jammu and KashmirA leopard has claimed the lives of three children in the Uri area in the past few days, after which the administration on Tuesday issued an order to mobilize all available resources to capture or eradicate it. An official said this information. He said there were leopards in the Kalsan valley and Boniar area of \u200b\u200bUri in North Kashmir district.Leopard kills childrenThere have been three incidents of child murder According to an official spokesman, Baramulla Deputy Commissioner (DC) Syed Sehrish Asghar on Tuesday directed the authorities to mobilize all available resources to capture or eradicate the leopard, responding swiftly to ensure the safety of people’s lives. A leopard has eaten half of the body of a 12-year-old girl in Barnate village. Whose name is Rutba Manzur. His body was recovered from a nearby forest on Tuesday. Locals say the girl was dragged away by a leopard in the morning. The leopard ate the girl’s body Riaz Ahmed, a resident of the village, said, ‘Hearing the screams, we ran towards the forest. We did not find the leopard but found its carcass in the forest. This is the third incident in the last one week that has led to protests on the Srinagar-Uri highway. Relatives of the dead girl have protested against the forest department for leaving the body. He says there are allegations that the department has failed to prevent such incidents. In addition to setting up cages, hunters have been deployed in the area to kill leopards. Read this too   A leopard roaming the village of Uri has been claimed to have killed two more people in the Boniar and Cholan areas. The body of 13-year-old Shahid Ahmed was recovered from the forest of Trikanjan on Sunday night. Officials said Ahmed went to the forest with his cattle, where he was hunted by a leopard. A day earlier, 15-year-old Munir Ahmed, a resident of the same area, was killed by an animal, officials said. Rizwan Ahmed was a resident of Trikanjan. There is panic among the villagers over his death. People are suspecting that there are more than one leopard as such incidents are happening in different areas and forests.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Jammu and----LOC.STATE

Deputy Commissioner (DC)----OFF.DESIG

Syed Sehrish Asghar----OFF.NAME

leopard----SP.COMMON

half of----QTY

12-year-old----SUS.AGE

Barnate village----LOC.EXACT

Rutba Manzur----SUS.NAME

Tuesday----DATE

leopard----SP.COMMON

morning----TIME

leopard----SP.COMMON

body----ITEM

Shahid Ahmed----SUS.NAME

forest of Trikanjan on----ROUTE.SRC

Sunday----DATE

night----TIME

Trikanjan----SUS.LOC
