
["Drunken man rides scooter with python; incident took place in Kozhikode\nKOZHIKODE: A drunken youth was seen riding a scooter while carrying a python. The incident took place at Koyilandy in Kozhikode on January 29. Jeethu, a native of Muchukunnu, rode the scooter after catching the snake lying on the road. He also displayed the snake in front of the locals. Some locals had recorded the video of Jeethu catching the snake. The pictures surfaced some days later. Following this, the Forest Department started a probe and collected Jeethu's statement. The forest officials said that a case will be registered if necessary after the investigation. Upon investigating, the forest officials learnt that Jeethu did not know how to catch a snake and that he caught the snake and carried it on the scooter under the influence of alcohol. It was Jeethu himself who took the snake to the police station on that night. The police then handed over the snake to the forest department. After observation, the snake was taken to the forest on January 6 and released."]


Drunken man rides scooter with python; incident took place in Kozhikode
KOZHIKODE: A drunken youth was seen riding a scooter while carrying a python. The incident took place at Koyilandy in Kozhikode on January 29. Jeethu, a native of Muchukunnu, rode the scooter after catching the snake lying on the road. He also displayed the snake in front of the locals. Some locals had recorded the video of Jeethu catching the snake. The pictures surfaced some days later. Following this, the Forest Department started a probe and collected Jeethu's statement. The forest officials said that a case will be registered if necessary after the investigation. Upon investigating, the forest officials learnt that Jeethu did not know how to catch a snake and that he caught the snake and carried it on the scooter under the influence of alcohol. It was Jeethu himself who took the snake to the police station on that night. The police then handed over the snake to the forest department. After observation, the snake was taken to the forest on January 6 and released.----SUS.AFFIL
