
['Whisker seizure exposes tiger poaching in TATR\nChandrapur: The seizure of whiskers has exposed yet another tiger poaching case inside the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). Park rangers on Saturday exhumed the remains of the poached tiger to which the seized whiskers belong from a farm adjacent to the core boundary of the tiger reserve.Foresters on Thursday had trapped accused Narendra Chaudhari and Manoj Shende, residents of buffer villages Mudholi and Bhamdheli, at Padmapur gate when they carrying tiger whiskers to Chandrapur.During interrogation, the duo revealed the names of two more accused identified as Subhash Pendalwar and Kailash Dadmal, both from Mudholi village.During the forest custody remand, the four accused confessed to tiger poaching in a farm near Mudholi village. They named farmer Bandu Shrirame who had fenced his farm with electric wires that killed the tiger.RFO, Moharli (buffer) range, Raghvendra Mun claimed that poaching was carried out way back in August or September last year. The five-year-old tiger died of electrocution at the farm fence. Accused Shrirame, with the help of neighbour Kailash Dadmal, also a farmer, dug a hole and buried the tiger carcass. However, Dadmal had removed all the nails and whiskers from the carcass of the electrocuted tiger out of sheer greed, which led to exposure of the case, said Mun. Main accused Shrirame is still on the run.Accused Pendalwar took the whiskers of the tiger from Dadmal assuring him of good money from their sale. After TATR officials got a whiff of the plan, they lured the accused with a fake customer and summoned them to Chandrapur.Pendalwar sent 12 whiskers with the accused duo (Choudhri and Shende) for the ‘customer’ but the latter were trapped at the Padmapur gate. There were around 40 whiskers with Pendalwar, but he set the remaining ones on fire after getting a hint of the arrest of his two accomplices. “We have exhumed the remains of the poached tiger, including the bones, skull and canines. We have also seized all the 18 nails removed from the carcass by the accused,” said Mun.This is second case of poaching exposed in the Tadoba buffer zone this year. Earlier, a case of poisoning of a tiger family, including a tigress and two cubs, had come to the fore in the second week of June. A gang of illegal liquor sellers from Kondegaon having their brewery in Tadoba forest had poisoned the entire tiger family to eliminate the threat to their illegal business.']


Whisker----ITEM

seizure----CRIME.CAT

tiger----SP.COMMON

TATR----LOC.CITY

whiskers----ITEM

Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR)----LOC.EXACT

Park rangers----AUTH.SEIZE

Saturday----DATE

Thursday----DATE

Narendra Chaudhari----SUS.NAME

Manoj Shende----SUS.NAME

Mudholi----SUS.LOC

tiger----SP.COMMON

whiskers----ITEM

Subhash Pendalwar----SUS.NAME

Kailash Dadmal----SUS.NAME

Mudholi village.During----SUS.LOC

farmer----SUS.AFFIL

Bandu Shrirame----SUS.NAME

Kailash Dadmal----SUS.NAME

nails----ITEM

whiskers----ITEM

Choudhri----SUS.NAME

Shende----SUS.NAME

exhumed the remains of the poached tiger----OUTCOME

bones----ITEM

skull----ITEM

canines----ITEM

18----QTY

nails----ITEM
