
['Watch Man Killed Lion With Bare Hands In Uganda Viral Video Twitter & Reddit\n  A shocking video has gone viral on social media that shows a man getting involved in a fight with a lion. Not only did the man fight against the dreaded animal but also managed to defeat it. You might have gotten amazed to read the above information but it is true. In Uganda’s Iganga district, a brave man emerged triumphant after a great battle with a lion. The photos of the man, whose identity has not been revealed, covered in blood have surfaced on the internet, taking everyone by surprise. Check complete details here. As per reports, the brave man killed the animal on his own after he spotted it outside his home in CMS, Iganga. It was stated that the lion appeared outside the said man’s home and scared everyone. Despite the animal being so dangerous and large in size, the man did not hesitate and jumped in to fight it. Needless to say, the battle was quite tough and went on for quite some time. After a long battle, the man came out as the winner as he killed the lion with his bare hands. Reportedly, no one came to help him. It is also coming forward that the man was unarmed and he fought with the large lion alone, without having any weapon. It speaks volumes about his courage. Well, this is the reason, why he has become such a trending topic on the internet. Everyone seems to be talking about him as the viral video shows the terrifying battle between a powerful animal and an unarmed man. The after photos of the fight have also circulated online. It shows the brave man covered in multiple injuries. There was an eye bandage while his hands were also covered in wounds. After the man killed the lion, he was admitted to the hospital. Since the man was severely injured, the people around him admitted him to a nearby hospital where his treatment started. Although his injuries were not life-threatening, everyone still worried about him. Now, the man and the video have gone viral online. It is taking everyone by surprise as no one had even imagined this incident. Well, who could have thought a man can kill a large lion without any weapons, with his bare hands only. However, some people are calling him out for killing an animal instead of informing the animal rescue team about it.']


Lion----SP.COMMON

Iganga district----LOC.DISTRICT
