
['Bengal Monitor Lizard Maharashtra: Four held for \'raping\' Bengal monitor lizard in Maharashtra forest\nKOLHAPUR: Four accused arrested by Maharashtra forest department in the first week of April in the case of allegedly entering into core zone of Sahyadri Tiger Reserve-STR along with weapons used for hunting have been granted bail by the local court of Ratnagiri.One of the accused had clicked pictures of him while raping a monitor lizard forest department is taking legal opinion in this case to charge IPC Section 377 on the accused for raping an animal.Divisional forest officer Vishal Mali said, "The case took serious turn when the mobile phone seized from one of the suspects revealed photos of him doing carnal intercourse (rape) with a monitor lizard. The accused have been charged with section 9, section 27, section 30 as of now under Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. Forest department is taking legal opinion in this case to charge him under IPC section 377 (unnatural offence). If forest department can\'t officially charge IPC Section 377, then we will take help of police in this case".Mali added that several other photos of hunting hare, pangolin, mouse deer, porcupine, etc. were found in the mobile and the investigation in connection with those is under way. A gun used for poaching, two motorcycles and a battery has been seized by forest department.These four suspect\'s had received seven days forest custody and later the court has granted them bail on April 8. "We are approaching sessions court in this matter so that maximum punishment is given to these accused. This is something serious psychopath kind of thing is dangerous for mankind. Start of HIV aids and other few diseases has appeared through such unnatural intercourse and can turn out dangerous" added Mali.The incident came into limelight when few poachers were spotted trespassing illegally in the core zone of STR with weapons on March 31 in the trap cameras installed in STR for Tiger census. Forest guard Ramdas Danane registered a case and brought it to the notice of the senior officials. A special investigating team was formed and on 2nd April, forest department had arrested three person, one from Hativ (Gothane rehabilitated) and other two from Maral village from Ratnagiri district. Later on April 4, one more accused was arrested in this case from Bamnoli village in Sangmeshwar taluka of Ratnagiri district.Through Sahyadri Tiger Project-Karad, a public appeal is made that keeping, handling, selling and hunting wild animals and birds is an offence under the Wildlife Conservation Act 1972.']


Bengal Monitor Lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Maharashtra----LOC.STATE

Four----SUS.NUMBER

Bengal monitor lizard----SP.SPECIFIC

Four----SUS.NUMBER

Maharashtra forest department----AUTH.SEIZE

weapons----ITEM

granted bail by the local court of Ratnagiri.One----OUTCOME

monitor lizard----SP.COMMON

gun----ITEM

two----QTY

motorcycles----ITEM

a----QTY

battery----ITEM

seized----CRIME.CAT

forest department.These----AUTH.SEIZE

seven days forest custody----OUTCOME

2nd April----DATE

arrested----CRIME.CAT

three----SUS.NUMBER

Hativ----SUS.LOC

Maral village----SUS.LOC

Ratnagiri district----SUS.LOC

Bamnoli village in Sangmeshwar taluka----SUS.LOC
