
["Mother drops 3-year-old into bear enclosure at zoo in shocking video. Watch\nBy Shubhi Mishra: A distressing video of a mother dropping her 3-year-old daughter in a bear enclosure has surfaced online. The incident happened at a zoo in Tashkent, Uzbegistan. In the video, the mother can be seen dropping the child she was holding over the railings in the bear pit. The CCTV footage showed the mother holding the little girl in her arms over the railings. She suddenly dropped the child into the bear pit as visitors looked in horror. The Caucasian brown bear named Zuzu came very close to the toddler. However, in seconds, six zookeepers arrived. They managed to rescue the girl while one of them carried her to safety. Her mother can be seen standing and watching amidst the huge crowd that had gathered, The Daily Mail reported. advertisement Watch the video here: Meanwhile, the 3-year-old toddler suffered a concussion, head cuts and bruising due to her fall. She also suffered a light shock but her body didn’t show any signs of the bear attacking. “She was diagnosed with a concussion, caused by her falling from a height of five metres, and an open wound on her head. Currently her state is normal, but she remains under constant observation,” a spokesman told the Daily Mail. “A young woman threw a little girl down into a brown bear's enclosure, in front of all the visitors. It was completely unclear what her motive was. Both the visitors and the staff of the zoo were trying to stop her-but failed,” said a zoo spokeswoman. We are scared to even think how this would end if the bear were to react to the toddler as its prey. Zuzu, a male Caucasian brown bear, was watching the woman, who threw the little one over a metal fence. She fell into a trench under the fence. Zuzu slowly stood up, slowly got down the trench, walked towards the girl, sniffed her- and walked back,” she added. The mother of the 3-year-old girl was later detained and has been charged with attempted murder. ALSO READ: Budget 2022: Nirmala Sitharaman announces 20 per cent duty hike on umbrellas. Twitter is not happy ALSO WATCH: Justina Machado talks about The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild, her interest in Bollywood --- ENDS ---"]


Mother----SUS.GENDER

drops----CRIME.CAT

3-year-old----SUS.AGE

Tashkent----LOC.DISTRICT

Uzbegistan----LOC.STATE

Caucasian brown bear----SP.SPECIFIC

Zuzu----SUS.NAME

mother of the 3-year-old girl was later detained and has been charged with attempted murder----OUTCOME
