
['Mahindra XUV700 royally stuck: Rescued by Thar [Video]\nThe Mahindra XUV700 is one of those SUVs which has charmed buyers from all kinds of segments. Some people are buying the XUV700 for their daily urban grinds with space and features on offer. At the same time, some wish to explore unexplored terrains by relying on its powerful engine options and strong build. Here is one person falling in the latter category, who unfortunately drove his Mahindra XUV700 in a slushy pathway and got stuck. The entire incident was recorded and uploaded by YouTuber “Arun Panwar” on his channel. In this video, he mentioned that one of his friends drove his XUV700 into a slushy field while wrongly relying on Google Maps. He continued to drive in the slushy field in the hope to connect with the shortest possible road to his destination. However, eventually, the XUV700 ended up in a situation beyond which it failed to gain the required traction to drive over the slush and got stuck. Also read: Man arrested for driving self-drive rental Swift on the shores of Morjim Beach in Goa XUV700 owner’s came to rescue The XUV700 owner then called his friends, who reached the spot in a short time. Firstly, they were amazed to see how the petrol-powered front-wheel-drive XUV700 managed to drive into the field despite the deep slush and mud on the pathway it covered before getting stuck. The owner then tried to contact the roadside assistance team of Mahindra. However, the call centre executive requested the XUV700 owner to bring the vehicle out of the field back to the road by himself, after which a crane would have been sent for his assistance. After not getting the required response and aid, the friends of the XUV700 owner decided to tow out the XUV700 stuck in the field with the help of a tractor. It required a bit of a tussle and steers through the mud, but finally, the XUV700 managed to come out of the slush. While it was covered fully with mud and slush, no mechanicals and electrical systems of the XUV700 were damaged in the whole event. The Mahindra XUV700 petrol version is available with front-wheel-drive as standard and is powered by a 2.0-lire turbocharged petrol engine, which produces 200 PS of power and 380 Nm of torque. The XUV700 FWD is capable of doing mild off-road duties, such as driving over basic gravelled roads. However, one should only trust the AWD system if he wishes to drive over tricky surfaces, like the one described in the incident here. Mahindra offers AWD as an option only for the range-topping AX7 diesel-automatic variant. Also read: 10 DC Design cars & how they look in the REAL world: Maruti Swift to Mahindra XUV500']


Mahindra XUV700----TRANSPORT_MODE

Thar----LOC.CITY
