
['King Cobra Enters Bathroom Wraps Toilet Paper Around Itself Viral Video\nKing Cobras are known as the most venomous snake species in the world. The snakes are not only the most poisonous but also the longest. Yes, you read it right. A king cobra can grow to be 10 to 12 feet long and weigh up to 20 pounds as an adult. When a cobra stands, it can meet a human of average height eye to eye. Unless they are aroused, king cobras mainly consume small animals or other snakes, and they rarely bite humans. You must be wondering why we are talking about cobras here. Check the article below to find out. Recently, a video surfaced on the internet. In the video clip, a king cobra is seen inside a bathroom. It also had a bit of toilet paper wrapped around its body. The video starts with the man filming a video of the giant snake in his bathroom while its tails are wrapped around the toilet. Needless to say, the snake looked scary as it was standing having its head on a wall. As the video continues, the huge snake is seen moving around and is also trying to get out. Undoubtedly, the video has stunned everyone. Well, what reaction can anyone expect if a king cobra, let alone any snake, barges into someone’s bathroom? The man who was recording the video also seemed a bit terrified as he shot the moment on his phone. Since the snake started moving around, the man got scared and immediately closed the door so that the snake does not succeed in coming out of the bathroom. Ever since the video was uploaded, it has managed to get over 55,700 views. It has been surfacing on social media and has been garnering the attention of the netizens. The video has gone viral online and has been shared by several people. It has also started a debate about whether they are safe inside their houses or not as what could scare someone more than finding a king cobra inside their bathroom. Talking more about King Cobra, it is regarded as the national reptile of India. Despite having a fearsome reputation, the species avoids confrontation with humans whenever possible. However, they can attack when provoked to an extent. Instead of biting, the cobra may sustain its bite and inject a large quantity of venom that can be considered a medical emergency. Stay tuned to this space for more updates.']


King Cobra----SP.SPECIFIC

toilet paper----CONCEALMENT_METHOD
