
['Delhi: ‘Rescue Lakshmi from hostile conditions’\nNEW DELHI: Habeas corpus petition , normally used to knock the doors of constitutional courts to trace an arrested person, has been filed to locate elephant ‘Lakshmi’ by a mahout who was arrested for allegedly stealing it and hiding it for two months in Delhi.Lakshmi was in the news three months ago as Delhi Police on September 17 claimed they had arrested mahout Saddam for allegedly stealing and hiding her in the heart of the national capital. Saddam was released on bail by a Karkardooma court in east Delhi after spending 68 days in Mandoli jail. Lakshmi, allegedly recovered by police from Saddam, was sent to a rehabilitation centre.The petitioner said after his release from jail, he inquired about Lakshmi and came to know that she was ill and needed immediate care and medical treatment. “Lakshmi is in a hostile atmosphere without love and care and in such circumstances, medicines have a limited effect. Hence, the present habeas corpus petition for release of Lakshmi from illegal detention in a rehabilitation centre,” he said. He named the the environment and forests ministry, Delhi government, Delhi Police commissioner and the Elephant Rehabilitation Centre at Tahri in Haryana as respondents.Saddam, through advocate Wills Mathews, claimed that as a poor migrant from Bihar, he had been tending to two elephants — Lakshmi and Moti — since 2004 and had developed an emotional bond with Lakshmi. He said he regularly fed her and took care of her when she was unwell. He said he was made Lakshmi’s mahout in 2009 and the elephant became part of his large family.He said forest officials took the elephant to the rehabilitation centre after physically torturing her by forcing her to board a truck in violation of several provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. “The petitioner is compelled to approach the Supreme Court mainly to deliver justice to Lakshmi, though he is not the owner, but as a near, dear and close friend, and in the capacity as mahout,” Saddam said.Referring to the apex court’s decisions in banning Jallikattu and citing provisions of PCA Act, both of which were meant to protect animals from cruelty and torture, the petitioner said, “Lakshmi also has her honour and dignity and has a right to be treated in a dignified manner. She also has a right to live in the company of her choice, especially the person she loves the most, the person who understands her the most, the person who communicated most effectively with her and the person who is ready to give his life for her.”Saddam said only he could understand the torture inflicted on Lakshmi by separating her from him as they shared a close bond for more than a decade, which could be gauged from the fact that she accepted food and medicines only from him. “I regarded Lakshmi as an equal and in no way inferior. She was very intelligent, affectionate, obedient, loving, caring and one who enjoyed music,” he said to substantiate his intimate relationship with the pachyderm.']


Lakshmi----SUS.NAME

elephant----SP.COMMON

Lakshmi----SUS.NAME

stealing----CRIME.CAT

Delhi.Lakshmi----LOC.EXACT

Saddam----SUS.NAME
