
['Leopard attacks in Bijnor: 5-year-old found dead in sugarcane field, girl, 4, critical\nBIJNOR: A five-year-old child was mauled to death by a leopard in Bijnor. The boy’s body was found in a sugarcane field by villagers on Tuesday. Another child, who was critically injured in the same attack, continues to fight for her life in a hospital. This is the third attack by a leopard on children in the past two days. Villages in Bijnor and Uttarakhand continue to be in a state of shock because of the constant threat.On Monday late evening, four-year-old Nishu and five-year-old Chetan were playing outside their houses in Prempuri village, 12 km away from Najibabad. The kids shouted for help when they spotted a leopard. The animal attacked Nishu in the neck and carried Chetan away. Nishu was taken to a hospital and villagers started a search operation for Chetan.The search didn’t yield any results on Monday. On Tuesday, villagers resumed the search, only to stumble upon the child’s half-eaten body in a sugarcane field around 300 metres from the village. Parts of the child’s back, hands and face were missing. The hands had been separated from the body. The sight sent the villagers into shock.A similar attack had taken place in Akbarpur Chauganva village on Sunday night. A leopard picked up a five-year-old boy, Rohan. When his family members came to his rescue, the animal dropped the boy and fled. Rohan sustained injuries on his neck and is currently recuperating in a government hospital.Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, “We’ve set up cages to trap leopards and our staff have increased vigil and patrolling. A probe into the killing of the child is on.”Najibabad divisional forest officer Manoj Shukla said that a leopard couldn’t be declared a man eater after it killed only one human. “It was the first time that a leopard ate a kid’s body. We cannot declare it a man eater yet. The attacks were carried out in different areas. We are not sure if the same leopard is attacking the villagers. We have alerted our staff and have put cages in different areas,” he said.According to villagers, with the harvest season in full swing, leopards have been stalking sugarcane farms. Leopards generally thrive on the fringes of forests and often come in contact with humans. They breed inside sugarcane fields, which offer them cover. The animals litter from February to April, which is when they are most likely to attack humans.West UP is India’s sugarcane bowl, with Bijnor being the second biggest cultivator in the state after Lakhimpur Kheri. With the destruction of natural forests and the rise in the number of tigers, the smaller felines are shifting towards sugarcane fields.The shy animals subsist on dogs, goats, rabbits, wild boars, nilgai calves, jackals, etc. which are easy preys and are available in sugarcane fields or close to populated areas. The big cats used to be good friends of the farmers, as they killed the animals that destroyed crops. However, they have started targeting children of late.Although a leopard census hasn’t been conducted in the district, more than a dozen cubs have been rescued by the forest department in May 2019 alone, indicating a spike in the population of the big cats. It is estimated that including cubs, their number in the district could be well over 100.Eight days ago, a leopard pounced on an infant, which was sitting alone in a bullock cart where its parents had left him. As his parents rushed to little Krishna’s rescue, the leopard escaped. After the incident, villagers demanded that the animal be caught soon.On December 8, a leopard attacked 16-year-old Mahendra Singh in Avadipur Bani village. On November 27, a leopard attacked and killed 45-year-old Samala Devi in Nawada village, when she was mowing grass along with her daughters-in-law.']


Leopard----SP.COMMON

Bijnor----LOC.DISTRICT

5-year-old----SUS.AGE

found dead----CRIME.CAT

girl----SUS.GENDER

4----SUS.AGE

leopard----SP.COMMON

Bijnor----LOC.DISTRICT

Tuesday----DATE

Monday----DATE

evening----TIME

four-year-old----SUS.AGE

Nishu----SUS.NAME

five-year-old----SUS.AGE

Chetan----SUS.NAME

Prempuri village----LOC.EXACT

leopard----SP.COMMON

Akbarpur Chauganva village----LOC.EXACT

Sunday----DATE

night----TIME

leopard----SP.SPECIFIC

Rohan----SUS.NAME
